Michael Scofield watches a tattoo artist add the finishing touches to a section of his arm. She marvels at her masterpiece. In just a matter of months, Michael has tattooed his chest, back and both arms down to the wrists. The tattoo artist tells him that it takes most guys a few years to get that much ink done. Michael cryptically replies, “I don’t have a few years.”

Michael hurries back to his apartment, passing a small origami swan perched on his desk. Every inch of wall and window space is wallpapered with papers, maps and newspaper articles. Some article titles read: “Lincoln Burrows’ Final Appeal Denied,” “Governor’s Daughter Wins Humanitarian Award,” and “Life Sentence for Mob Boss Abruzzi.” Michael methodically tears the web of information off the windows, and then turns to his computer. He pulls the hard drive out and steps out onto the balcony. Michael rears back and throws his hard drive into the Chicago River below.

The next day, Michael stands inside a bank, arm raised high with a gun pointed toward the ceiling. Bank personnel and clients sprawl across the floor, covering their heads. Michael fires his gun upward; the people cower. He points the gun at a bank employee behind the counter. “The vault. Open it.” She tells him that she can’t because the bank manager is not around; he’s at lunch. Michael aims his gun upward again and fires twice. “I’m not playing games, open it.” The bank employee tries to convince him that the half million he has in his bag is more than enough for him to just walk away. She trails off at the sounds of sirens. Squad cars surround the building. A police helicopter circles the bank. Michael drops his weapons, raises his hands and slowly turns around.

Inside a courtroom, Michael sits behind a table. His lawyer and longtime friend, Veronica Donovan, stands beside him. The judge is baffled by Michael’s no contest plea and suggests that he rethink it. When Michael says he is sure of his plea, Veronica steps in and tries to convince him otherwise. But Michael refuses to change it. The judge calls a recess to determine Michael’s sentence. As the bailiff leads Michael away, Michael sees his nephew, LJ, sitting in the courtroom. “Go home LJ. I didn’t want you to see this,” Michael tells him.

Veronica follows Michael to a jail cell in the courthouse. “He’s not going to take this well,” Michael says, referring to LJ. “Can you blame him?” Veronica snaps back. She tells him that LJ is beginning to feel like everyone he cares about is going to end up in prison. Veronica adds and LJ isn’t the only one who feels that way. Veronica interrogates Michael further about his behavior in the courtroom and the behavior that landed him there. This isn’t like him. But Michael insists, “You’ve got to let me deal with this.”

Back in the courtroom, the judge announces her decision. She was inclined to give Michael probation. But, because he fired a deadly weapon during the attempted robbery, she wants him to do time. She notices that Michael has requested a prison close to his Chicago home and places him at Fox River Penitentiary, a maximum security prison. The term of his sentence will be five years, beginning immediately.

Fox River Penitentiary is an old prison. Guard towers and forbidding razor wire line the perimeter. Inside, a correctional officer barks out orders as new inmates walk through their welcoming process. Here, inmates shower and receive prison uniforms. Michael is coldly greeted by the head correctional officer, Captain Brad Bellick. Bellick reads over Michael’s forms and lays out the rules of the prison. There are two commandments at Fox River. “One, you’ve got nothing coming to you,” Bellick gruffly states. When Michael inquires about the second commandment, Bellick replies, “See commandment number one.” Michael tells Bellick he’s just trying to do his time and get out, fly under the radar. Bellick looks down at Michael’s form again; the words “Type I Diabetes” are written and circled.

In his cell, Michael studies the hundreds of prisoners milling in their cells. “I suggest you take a seat, fish,” Fernando Sucre, better known as simply “ Sucre,” tells his new cellmate. Michael watches inmates walk across the floor below. Suddenly, one of them is stabbed by another. The victim falls to his knees, bleeding and screaming. The inmates holler in excitement. Sucre calls over Michael’s shoulder, “Welcome to Prisneyland, fish.”

Late at night, Veronica is at home staring out the window. Her fiancé, Sebastian, wanders down the stairs looking for her. There’s something on her mind. Sebastian asks, “You want to talk about it?” Veronica tries to brush it off, but she is troubled by Michael’s case. She says she shouldn’t talk about it and Sebastian heads back to bed.

Sucre and Michael head out to the yard. Sucre serves as a tour guide, telling him whose turf is where. They walk by an older man holding a cat. Michael inquires about him. Sucre tells him that while the man will deny it, he’s the infamous D.B. Cooper who parachuted out of a plane thirty years ago with a million and a half in cash. Sucre begins chatting with some other inmates while Michael’s eyes scan the yard. He focuses on two yellow fire hydrants and a grate expelling steam. Next to Michael’s foot is another grate, he forces a magazine down it. Then he turns back to Sucre and the inmates. “I’m looking for someone. His name is Lincoln Burrows.”

Sucre takes him to a part of the yard where they see Lincoln squatting against a wall, far removed from the general population. He’s known in the prison as “Linc the Sink.” He’s a death row inmate awaiting execution for the murder of the Vice President’s brother. Sucre asks Michael, “Why do you want to see Burrows so bad anyway?” Michael boldly replies, “Because he’s my brother.” Sucre tells him that the only way he can get close to his brother is through “P.I.” or Prison Industries. But former mob boss and Fox River celebrity John Abruzzi has a heavy hand in P.I..

Michael folds another origami swan in his cell. He flashes back to a conversation he had with Lincoln a few months ago, where they talked about the date of his execution. Separated by glass and steel in the visitation area, Lincoln swears to Michael that he did not kill the Vice President’s brother. Lincoln tells Michael that he doesn’t know how they did it, but it was a set up. Back in the cell, Sucre is writing a letter to his girlfriend, Maricruz. He wants to propose to her.

LJ and a friend ride their bikes through a dark alley in Chicago. They arrive at a set of doors, push a buzzer and a well-dressed man exits. They follow the man to a car, where he opens the trunk and puts a large bag of marijuana into LJ’s backpack. LJ and the man finalize the details of the transaction and the boys ride away. But undercover officers are watching. Before the boys can flee, the police close in on them.

Michael makes his way across the yard where John Abruzzi sits, playing cards. Michael boldly tells Abruzzi that he needs to be hired for P.I., but Abruzzi is not interested in this new fish. Someone like Michael has nothing to offer someone like Abruzzi. Michael quietly says, “I wouldn’t be so sure of that,” and places an origami swan before Abruzzi. Abruzzi’s goons stand up, signaling Michael’s exit. “Come find me when you want to talk,” Michael says as he backs away. Abruzzi flicks the swan away from him.

Inside a warehouse, giant slabs of meat hang from the ceiling and butchers stand about, chopping beef. Mobster Gavin Smallhouse enters, carrying an envelope. Maggio, a heavy set man in a butcher’s outfit, walks over to Gavin. Inside the envelope is a photo of an older man, taken from a distance. The man in the photo is Fibonacci, a mob informant whose testimony put Abruzzi behind bars. Smallhouse and Gavin are very interested in where the photo came from. But there’s something else in the envelope. “What is it?” asks Maggio.

In the prison infirmary, Dr. Sara Tancredi sinks a hypodermic needle into Michael’s arm. “I’m Michael, by the way,” he says to her in a mildly flirtatious tone. “And you are?” Sara replies, “Dr. Tancredi will do.” Michael asks her if she is the daughter of Governor Tancredi, but Sara doesn’t answer. If this humanitarian award winning idealist is in fact the daughter of the tough-on-crime governor, it is not a fact she likes to advertise. Dr. Tancredi exits the room for a moment, and Michael jumps up, sneaking another origami swan into the drainage grate in the infirmary floor. He’s back in his seat before Sara returns. She tells him that since hypodermic needles are not permitted in an inmate’s cell, he’ll have to come to the infirmary for his regular insulin shot.

In Washington, D.C., Special Agent Hale enters the office of Special Agent Kellerman. Hale tells Kellerman that everything is in place for Lincoln’s execution, except for Bishop McMorrow. Hale worries that the Bishop has a lot of influence with the Governor and may persuade him to grant a stay of execution. Kellerman realizes Hale’s point. “Maybe it’s time we arranged a visit with the good Bishop then.”

In the prison chapel, Lincoln gazes up at the chaplain. When he stands to exit, he turns and sees Michael for the first time. Lincoln can’t believe it. “Why?” he asks Michael. Michael tells him that he’s going to get Lincoln out of prison. Lincoln tells Michael it’s impossible. Michael replies, “Not if you designed the place it isn’t.”

Sebastian and Veronica flip through a book of wedding invitations. Sebastian tells her that they need to make a decision soon. But Veronica wants to take her time and do it right. Sebastian feels like Veronica is having second thoughts. Veronica reassures him that he’s the man she wants to be with.

Sucre is panicked about his letter to his girlfriend. She’s supposed to meet him for a conjugal in a couple days, but hasn’t called him to confirm that she’s coming. A C.O. bangs on the cell door. “Scofield, The Pope wants to see you.” Sucre tells Michael that no one gets an audience with The Pope unless he’s really interested in what you have to say.

Warden Henry Pope peels off his glasses and reads Michael’s academic accomplishments. “I can’t help but wonder what someone with your credentials is doing in a place like this.” Michael brushes it off. “Took a wrong turn a few months back, I guess.” The Pope noticed that in Michael’s file, he claimed to be unemployed, but Pope isn’t fooled. “I know you’re a structural engineer, Scofield.” Pope leads Michael into the next room where a massive model of the Taj Mahal made out of toothpicks sits atop a work table. The model represents his love for his wife, Pope explains, and he hopes to give it to her as a fortieth anniversary present in two months. The problem is, Pope has built it without proper reinforcements, and he needs Michael’s help to keep it from collapsing. Pope offers Michael three days of work a week in Pope’s office. Michael rejects the offer. The Pope is stunned, “Son, it’s better for me to owe you one in here than for you to owe me one, I can promise you that.” Michael says he’ll take his chances and Pope calls for the guard to escort Michael out.

LJ is being scolded by his mother, Lisa Rix. “Two pounds of pot? Were you trying to set a record?” LJ cracks a smile, but Lisa pounces on him. “It’s not funny LJ, you could be going to jail!” LJ’s stepdad, Adrian, enters. Lisa says that LJ needs guidance, and LJ mutters that he certainly won’t get it from Daddy Warbucks. Lisa doesn’t understand why LJ is misbehaving, until she thinks about Lincoln. Maybe a face-to-face with his father will set LJ straight.

Veronica visits Michael. Michael seems determined to stay put in Fox River, even telling Veronica not to appeal his case. Veronica knows something is going on and she demands to know what he’s planning. The conversation turns to Veronica’s relationship with Lincoln. She tells Michael that she gave Lincoln every chance to make it work when she returned from college and Michael points out that maybe Lincoln was hurt that she left in the first place. She begs Michael to stop what he’s doing. Michael tells her that if they want to save Lincoln, she needs to find whoever is trying to frame Lincoln.

As Veronica signs out, Lincoln is being led through a parallel corridor. He sees her, but she does not see him.

Hale and Kellerman meet Bishop McMorrow at his home. Kellerman attempts to convince the Bishop to separate himself, no matter what, from Burrows’ case. The Bishop is firm; if an inmate on death row asks for help, the Bishop will intervene. Kellerman plays his last card, and accuses the Bishop of committing fraud. The Bishop stands strong and says he will not be bullied.

Abruzzi leans against a payphone, on the other end is Maggio. “You heard me. Someone found Fibonacci.” Abruzzi’s eyes light up and he wants to know who sent it. Maggio says he doesn’t know, but in the envelope was a “folded up bird.” This registers with Abruzzi and he hangs up the phone and walks away.

Michael stands in the yard over the grate he dropped the magazine into. When he looks down, he sees the swan from the infirmary resting against it. Behind him, Charles Westmoreland watches; his cat, Marilyn, is wrapped in his jacket. Michael sits down next to him. Michael tells Westmoreland that he knew his wife. After testing Michael to ensure this new fish can be trusted, Westmoreland relaxes. Michael asks if Westmoreland is D.B. Cooper. Westmoreland smiles and replies, “Every new fish that comes in here, first thing they hear is that Charles Westmoreland is D.B. Cooper.” Westmoreland denies it. Abruzzi approaches, flanked by his goons. Westmoreland takes off.

Abruzzi wants Michael to talk. Michael only asks, “Say you could get outside those walls. Would you have the people in place to make sure you disappeared forever?” Abruzzi says he would, but that’s not what he came to talk to Michael about. He demands to know where Fibonacci is. Michael makes a threat; if someone comes for him, he’s going after Abruzzi. Abruzzi’s goons take offense to the statement and jump Michael. Michael lands a punch on Abruzzi before one of the goons unleashes a sock filled with batteries and begins whipping Michael. A C.O. in the guard tower takes notice and fires warning shots into the yard around Michael and Abruzzi, ending the skirmish.

In Pope’s office, the warden threatens to throw Michael in the SHU for ninety days for fighting. But Michael thinks fast and offers to help fix the Taj instead of doing time in isolation. Pope agrees.

The Bishop is fast asleep in his massive bed. A shadow moves across the wall. A floorboard creaks. “Who’s there?” he groans. He sits up, eyes wide. A gun with a silencer fires once.

In Veronica’s office, her assistant enters and tells her the news of the Bishop’s murder. As it dawns on her that the one person who could have helped save Lincoln’s life has been murdered, Veronica mutters, “Michael was right.” She removes a copy of Lincoln’s trial deposition from a file cabinet.

A guard walks Lincoln to the visitation area where Lisa and LJ wait. Lisa informs Lincoln of LJ’s arrest and tells him that LJ needs some fatherly advice. She leaves the two alone. Lincoln tries to tell him that he needs to fly straight because he doesn’t want to end up in a place like Fox River. LJ has no interest in taking advice from his deadbeat dad. “They’re putting me to death LJ. In a few months time, I’ll be dead. You get that?” Lincoln tells him. LJ snaps back, “You’re already dead to me.”

Sucre paces in the conjugal area, nervous that Maricruz isn’t coming. A guard opens the door and Maricruz enters. She giddily accepts Sucre’s proposal.

Michael visits the infirmary. Sara reads his chart; something is strange. His blood glucose isn’t reacting to the insulin the way a diabetic should. She asks if he’s sure he has Type I diabetes. He says he’s sure, ever since he was a kid. The phone rings, saving Michael momentarily. He gets up and looks out the window at a telephone wire that runs from the infirmary roof to the prison wall. He looks down and his hands are shaking. Sara tells him she will run some tests the next time he’s in.

Back in the conjugal area, Sucre asks Maricruz how she got to the prison. When she answers, “Hector,” Sucre explodes. He doesn’t like Hector. He thinks Hector’s trying to steal her away. Maricruz tells Sucre that he has nothing to worry about.

Michael approaches an inmate named C-Note, he’s the “local pharmacy.” Michael asks for PUGNAc, an insulin blocker. C-Note says that kind of medication should be available at the infirmary, but Michael sets him straight. He can’t get an insulin blocker from the infirmary because he’s already going there for insulin shot. C-Note wonders why anyone would fake a condition to get insulin they don’t need, but when Michael hands him the cash, he stops asking questions.

Michael is in his cell. A C.O. walks up and taps on the bars with a P.I. work card. Michael smiles.

After a session of painting the halls, Michael and Lincoln walk in together. Lincoln asks about Veronica, “She still engaged to that guy?” Lincoln comments that it could have been him. Lincoln knows he pushed a lot of people away in his life after he broke up with Veronica. Abruzzi watches them from a distance. Michael and Lincoln talk quietly about Michael’s plan, “Getting outside of these walls is just the beginning,” Lincoln tells him. Lincoln grills Michael about the plan, Michael smiles and briefs Lincoln about the prison retrofitting job in 1999. “You’ve seen the blueprints,” Lincoln says quietly. Michael removes the top half of his work jumpsuit, “Better yet. I’ve got them on me.” Michael stands before Lincoln, his chest, arms and back covered in a massive tattoo. Michael tells Lincoln to look closer. Lincoln is amazed as he sees that Michael has concealed the prison’s blueprints in his tattoo.




Prison Break
Episode 102 - "Allen"
Airdate: 08/29/2005

In the yard, Michael and Westmoreland square off in a game of checkers. Michael’s intelligent play earns praise from Westmoreland. Michael hints to Westmoreland about his plan to escape. Westmoreland chuckles, “Three days inside and he’s already thinking about turning rabbit.” Westmoreland tells Michael that there are more immediate pressures to worry about; racial tension is dividing the prison population and the pot threatens to boil over soon.

In his cell, Michael examines part of the tattoo on his forearm… it appears to be a design. After a moment, he lifts a mirror and the design becomes words and numbers. It reads: SCHWEITZER ALLEN 11121147 which Michael jots down on a pad of paper. Sucre stands at the toilet but it won’t flush. Sucre looks at Michael with alarm. “That means only one thing, Fish.” The voice of an unseen C.O. roars through the prison, “SHAKEDOWN!”

Prisoners jettison a storm of contraband from their cells onto the prison floor below. Several heavily armed guards march into the wing and they begin shaking down cells. Sucre tells Michael to look under the table; Michael reaches under it and finds a well-crafted metal shank. “What the hell is this?” Michael says and slowly turns around. Before Sucre can answer, Bellick is standing at the cell door. Bellick barks at a nearby C.O. to open the door. “So, tooling up for the race war, are we?” he asks Michael. Warden Pope walks up. “Is there a problem here, Deputy?” Bellick tells Pope about the shank and Pope asks Michael if it’s his. Michael doesn’t respond. “You’re not a good liar,” he tells Michael. “Come on Sucre, you’re going to the SHU.” The Pope orders Bellick to move along. Bellick, upset that he has to move on, tells Michael that although Pope runs the prison during the day, “I run it at night.”

In the chapel, Michael tells Lincoln that they are going to escape through the infirmary. That’s why he’s pretending to be diabetic and that’s why he needs to get the PUGNAc from C-Note in order to continue the charade. Lincoln thinks the whole plan is a mistake. After all, Michael can’t even get out of his cell. Michael assures him that he can. Lincoln asks, “You’re gonna get your hands on a key?” “Something like that,” Michael replies.

As the inmates file out into the yard, Michael breaks from the group and heads to a set of bleachers. He feels along the edges, his eyes casing the yard to make sure that no one is watching. His hands find the top of a bolt. He takes a moment to rub a finger across it a few more times. We see the bolt’s serial number: 11121147.

Flashback to Michael’s office, he’s sitting at his desk looking over the schematics for a set of bleachers. The detailed plans are for the same set of bleachers that sit in the prison yard. Michael makes a note on the blueprints: 11121147.

Back in the yard, Michael sits on the top riser of the bleachers, directly above the bolt. He slowly reaches into his pocket and reveals a quarter. He inserts the quarter into the slotted head of the bleacher bolt and loosens it. An inmate on the bench warns Michael that he’s on T-Bag’s turf. Michael inquires who T-Bag is. The inmate responds that T-Bag is responsible for the rape and murder of several boys and girls in Alabama. Just then, T-Bag walks up to the bench. A step behind, and holding an outward turned pocket on T-Bag’s pants, is May Tag, T-Bag’s submissive partner. T-Bag assumes that Michael is seeking protection in the upcoming race war. Michael stalls, quietly unscrewing the bolt. T-Bag offers Michael protection when the race war comes; all Michael has to do is take T-Bag’s pant pocket, which T-Bag rips out of May Tag’s hand. May Tag is not pleased with T-Bag’s new fascination with Michael. Michael rejects T-Bag’s offer and T-Bag forces Michael from the bleachers. As Michael walks away, the bolt is left half-unscrewed from the bench.

Inside a courthouse lobby, Veronica tracks down Tim Giles, Lincoln’s public defender. When Veronica inquires about the case, Tim tells her, “The man was guilty. The prosecution’s case was a slam dunk.” Veronica posits that the federal government forced the case through because the victim was the Vice President’s brother. Tim takes exception and recounts the evidence. “ Lincoln worked for Steadman’s company. He gets into a public altercation with the guy, so he gets fired. Two weeks later, Steadman’s shot dead. The murder weapon is found in Lincoln’s house and the victim’s blood is all over his clothes.” Veronica asks about a man named Crab Simmons, who could have exonerated Lincoln. Tim tells her he was a five-time felon. Veronica asks if he’d mind if she asked Crab a few questions.

Lincoln sits alone in his dark cell. He finds comfort in a frail ray of sunlight and he flashes back to a bedroom, after Veronica graduated from law school. The two are lying in bed and Lincoln notes that this is the first time in a long time that his life is making sense. He wants to take a picture to remember it. Veronica demurs, but after some playful protests, allows Lincoln to take the photograph.

Michael walks with C-Note in the yard. Michael asks about his PUGNAc. C-Note says he working on it. Michael makes it clear that he needs it soon which prompts C-Note to ask why. “What’s up there in that infirmary that you need so bad?” Michael smiles and walks away but not before T-Bag takes notice of his interaction with a black inmate.

Michael goes to the bleachers to retrieve the loosened bolt. T-Bag and his crew, however, catch him in the act. Michael tries to conceal the bolt, but T-Bag makes him hand it over. Assuming Michael will use the bolt as a weapon, T-Bag questions Michael’s target. After all, Michael was just fraternizing with a black inmate. Across the yard, C-Note watches angrily as Michael talks with T-Bag and his militant white cohorts. A C.O. outside the fence steps in and breaks up the group. T-Bag hands the bolt to May Tag and Michael walks away empty-handed.

Bellick walks by Michael and Sucre’s cell. He proceeds to do the shakedown that the Pope had prohibited him from doing earlier. He flips the mattresses and shakes out the books, but finds nothing. He discovers the pad of paper Michael was using earlier and uses a pencil to rub across the top of the paper, revealing the SCHWEITZER ALLEN 11121147 that Michael had written.

Michael goes to Abruzzi, hoping for help in getting the bolt back from T-Bag. Abruzzi tells Michael he will only help him if Michael reveals Fibonacci’s location. Michael tells him he will, but not until they’re both standing outside the prison walls. Abruzzi, fed up, walks away.

In visitation, Abruzzi finds Philly Falzone waiting for him. “It’s an honor,” Abruzzi tells him. Next to Falzone is Smallhouse, who talks down to Abruzzi. Falzone is aware that someone in the prison knows where Fibonacci is and Falzone wants something done before Fibonacci testifies at a congressional hearing in a month. If Fibonacci does testify, a lot of mobsters, including Falzone, will join Abruzzi in prison. Falzone threatens Abruzzi, “Our kids go to the same Catholic school. Be a shame for anything to happen to your kids, you know.” Abruzzi reassures Falzone that they will get Fibonacci.

Sucre paces in the SHU. He wants to use the phone so he can call Maricruz. The C.O. makes fun of him and denies his request.

Bellick has another C.O. look through the prison manifest for the name, Allen Schweitzer. There is no Allen Schweitzer in general population, nor is there one in the SHU. Bellick is frustrated.

The lead-up to the race war intensifies and inmates of all colors prep their weapons.

On the way back out to the yard, another inmate threatens Michael. “Hear the trumpets, Fish? I know you hear ‘em. That’s Judgment Day. It’s comin’. Real soon.”

The inmates line up inside the cell block. Michael sees his chance to go through May Tag’s bunk and find the bolt. T-Bag catches him, but Michael thinks fast. “I want in,” he says. C-Note stops doing sit-ups in his cell and looks out to see Michael acting very friendly with T-Bag and May Tag. Michael explains to T-Bag that that’s why he wanted the bolt – to use as a weapon in the race war. T-Bag is happy to have Michael aboard, but doesn’t trust Michael with the “heavy artillery.” May Tag slips a popsicle stick into Michael’s pocket and Michael again leaves without his bolt.

Tim Giles visits Veronica in her office and apologizes for being short with her at the courthouse. He has brought a tape, the surveillance video the parking garage where Lincoln allegedly killed Terrence Steadman.

Veronica immediately watches the tape. The video shows a car with tinted windows pull into a parking space, shortly followed by Lincoln in a leather coat, arm pointed forward with a gun. When he arrives at the driver’s window, he fires once. Lincoln runs to the passenger side of the car, crawls in and rummages through the glove compartment. Then he runs from the view of the camera. Veronica turns away in horror, her worst fears now confirmed.

Michael stands with his back against a fence, Bellick comes up behind him and grumbles, “Allen Schweitzer. That name mean anything to you?” Michael plays dumb, replying “Never heard of the guy.” Bellick walks away, unsatisfied.

As Michael gets dressed after his shower, C-Note shows Michael a medication bottle. Michael follows C-Note around a corner, but Michael is immediately pinned against a wall by C-Note and some thugs. C-Note is furious that Michael has been hanging out with T-Bag. C-Note empties the bottle of PUGNAc and the group walks away with the threat, “You chose the wrong side.” Michael hits the wall in frustration.

Lincoln enters the visitation area where Veronica is waiting for him. She tells him he’s ruining people’s lives with his lie. Lincoln seems confused; Veronica sets him straight by telling him she saw the tape. Lincoln tells her the tape is false, but Veronica knows what she saw. “I know what I saw. I was there,” Lincoln says forcefully. In a flashback, Lincoln approaches that car, clearly nervous about what’s about to go down. When he looks in the driver’s side window, the driver is already dead, bloody and slouched forward against the steering wheel. Lincoln tells Veronica he never pulled the trigger. He tries to convince Veronica that he was set up. Veronica doesn’t know what to believe. Lincoln pleads, “If what we had meant anything, find out the truth.”

In the SHU, Sucre checks his watch and shouts to the officer outside. It’s Maricruz’s birthday and Sucre is desperate to call, but he has nothing to offer the C.O.. The C.O. ignores his plea and Sucre slumps to the floor.

A limo pulls up to a nightclub and Hector greets the several lovely women who pile out of it. But one woman remains inside: Maricruz. Maricruz tells Hector that she’s thinking about going home. Hector knows it’s because Sucre didn’t call her on her birthday and with gentle persuasion, Hector coaxes Maricruz out of the limo and into the club.

Tim Giles walks through a metal detector at the courthouse, where he’s intercepted by Hale and Kellerman. Kellerman flashes his government badge, then tells Giles they know he made a copy of the garage surveillance tape and wants to know why. “ It was for one of Burrows’ old girlfriends. She was under the impression that the guy was innocent. Figured it’d, you know, help her with closure.” Before they let Giles leave, they ask for Veronica’s name.

Veronica walks up to a run-down tenement building. She asks a woman outside if she knows Crab Simmons. “Crab’s my son.” An unseen woman parts the second-story curtain and eavesdrops on the conversation. Veronica asks Ms. Simmons where Crab is. Ms. Simmons replies, “He’s dead.”

The cell doors open and the inmates line up. A large Caucasian inmate steps forward. The C.O. orders him back, but he doesn’t respond. Westmoreland, cradling Marilyn, slowly creeps back into his cell. Another C.O. immediately calls for back up, and then all hell breaks loose. Michael tries to stay out of it, but an African-American inmate grabs him and tosses him from the second level. Michael hits the ground hard and rolls for cover. Seeing a moment to rid himself of his rival, May Tag charges Michael, bolt in hand. Michael wrestles May Tag to the ground, and rips the bolt from his hand. May Tag lunges forward, but before he can reach Michael, another inmate steps in and fatally stabs May Tag in the chest. May Tag falls into Michael’s arms. T-Bag sees this and assumes that Michael is responsible. The C.O.s fire tear gas into the hall, sending the inmates scattering. Michael finds his way back to his cell, coughing and covered in blood. T-Bag hovers over May Tag’s body shouting, “You’re a dead man, Scofield!”

The Pope paces the floor, lecturing the inmates. He had faith that they could behave like men, but they’ve disappointed him. The warden puts the prison on 48 hour lockdown, no food, no showers, and no visits. The Pope warns that if the inmates don’t learn to get along, the subsequent lockdowns will get longer. Michael sits against the cell wall and begins to rub his bolt against the floor.

T-Bag stands over May Tag’s body bag, a vengeful look in his eye.

In her office, Veronica gets a call from Leticia Barris, Crab Simmons’ ex-girlfriend. Leticia tells Veronica that she will give her some information, but only if they meet in a public place.

Leticia Barris walks in front of Veronica outside at Chicago’s Millennium Park. Leticia is already paranoid. “ We stay out here in the open. Where they can't get to us. Where they can't do the things they do.” Leticia says she has only agreed to talk to Veronica because the government is going to kill Lincoln just like they killed Crab. When Veronica raises the point that the coroner’s report showed Crab died of an overdose, Leticia shoots back, “Crab didn't use. He had a bad heart. If he touched the stuff, it'd kill him. I mean, don’t you think it’s just the slightest bit of a coincidence he OD’d a week after your boyfriend’s crime?” Crab was killed because he knew too much about what was going on. Leticia becomes spooked, convinced she was followed. She runs away before Veronica can get more answers.

In an undisclosed office, Kellerman reluctantly picks up the phone and makes a call. At the other end of the line, a woman chopping garlic picks up. Kellerman begins, “We have a small complication. There’s a lawyer poking around.” But the Garlic Cutter at the other end already knows about Veronica and she has faith that Veronica can be dealt with. Before Kellerman hangs up, the voice says, “Do what you need to do to make this go away.”

Michael continues to rub the bolt against the cell floor. T-Bag heckles him from his cell, “You still there, pretty? I just want you to know I’m coming for you.” Michael hears T-Bag’s eerie taunts, but forces himself to concentrate on sharpening the bolt. A flashback reveals Michael looking over the blueprints of Fox River and the details of the Schweitzer toilets used in the prison. His eyes focus on “Steel Angle Brackets with 1/4” Allen Bolts.” Back in the cell, Michael rolls up his sleeve to reveal the tattoo again. He presses the bolt against a small hexagon tattooed on his forearm. The sizes match. We finally understand Michael’s obsession with the bolt from the bleacher; he has created an allen wrench from it. He crawls over to the toilet and finds an allen bolt. He inserts the wrench and begins to turn it.

In the infirmary, Sara asks who her one o’clock is. The nurse replies that it is Scofield.

C-Note hands Michael his PUGNAc in the yard. He admits he was wrong about Michael and apologizes for the late delivery. Michael just hopes it didn’t arrive too late. A C.O. yells to Michael and leads him to the infirmary.

Sara pricks Michael’s finger and draws a sample of blood. She places the sample into a small device to measure Michael’s glucose. Michael nervously awaits the results. Sara sighs, “Bad news, I’m afraid. 180 mg/dl. You’re definitely diabetic.” Michael smiles. After Michael leaves, Sara comments to her nurse that it’s strange. Michael looked relieved when she told him he had diabetes.

Bellick escorts Michael back to his cell, pausing for a moment to get sugar for his coffee. The moment Bellick leaves Michael alone, three of Abruzzi’s thugs grab him and lead him into a gardening shed where Abruzzi waits. Abruzzi is fed up with the little dance he and Michael have been doing over Fibonacci’s whereabouts. The goons grab Michael and pin him on a table. One of the goons removes Michael’s boot, exposing his foot and then grabs a pair of pruning shears. The goon opens the shears; Michael’s two small toes rest in the blades. Abruzzi gives him one more chance to tell him where Fibonacci is. Michael, sweating and tense, replies, “ I’ll tell you the moment we’re outside those walls. Not a second before.”

Abruzzi counts to three. One… Two… Michael doesn’t waver. Three. The man closes the shears. Michael screams.




Prison Break
Episode 103 - "Cell Test "
Airdate: 09/05/2005

Blood covers the yard department floor. Abruzzi smiles as one of his goons holds gardening shears. Michael’s eyes glaze over in pain, fixed on the ceiling. C.O. Mack barges in, demands to know, “What the hell happened?” Abruzzi tells him it was an accident. Two more C.O.s take Michael away as Abruzzi snatches up Michael’s severed toes, concealing them in a blood-soaked sock. Bellick marches in and confronts Abruzzi. “I thought you were going to have a conversation with him.” Abruzzi replies, “Things escalated.”

The C.O.s drag Michael to the infirmary, his foot soaked in blood. Dr. Tancredi removes the makeshift bandage while Michael fights back tears of pain. “What happened?” Sara demands. Michael knows he cannot tell her the details of his dealings with Abruzzi, and as he struggles in excruciating pain, he begs her, “Please don’t make me lie to you.”

Sara finds Officer Bellick in the infirmary lobby and urges him to start an Internal Affairs investigation. Bellick tells her that it was only an accident, that Michael stepped on some gardening shears in the shed. Sara tries to press the issue, but Bellick smiles at her with an assurance that he’s taking care of it.

Michael rests in his cell bunk, his injured foot elevated and bandaged. The first signs of doubt and worry begin to creep onto Michael’s face.

The next day on P.I., Michael hobbles around, attempting to rake the grass around Lincoln’s pen. Lincoln rattles the chain link fence and threatens, “I’m gonna kill that scum!” Michael, though clearly in pain, calls Lincoln off. Abruzzi is a necessary player in the escape. Michael explains: Abruzzi owns a small charter flight business that operates from an airstrip ten miles from Fox River. They need Abruzzi to help them disappear. But Abruzzi isn’t the only person that they need to trust. They need to know if Sucre can keep his mouth shut, because Michael needs to break out through their cell. If he can’t get Sucre on board, the whole plan grinds to a halt.

Finally free from the SHU, Sucre immediately calls Maricruz from the yard payphone and starts leaving a suggestive message on her answering machine. Mrs. Delgado, unamused, picks up. A contrite Sucre explains that he can’t seem to reach Maricruz on her cell phone. Mrs. Delgado casually suggests that Maricruz must have turned her phone off while out with Hector. Sucre recoils at the thought of his girlfriend with the opportunistic Hector, but keeps his tone polite as he tells Mrs. Delgado, “I know you don’t like me, but I love your daughter.” Mrs. Delgado is unmoved, and tells Sucre that if he truly loved her, he would let her live her life. Sucre hangs up, angry, hurt and desperate to talk to Maricruz.

Lying in his cell, Sucre gazes at a picture of him and Maricruz. In the bunk below him, Michael lies down. He flashes back to his old apartment where he examines the intricate plans all over his walls. Amidst the drawings and photos, there’s a single post-it which reads “Cell Test.” Back in the present, Michael produces a cell phone from under his covers.

T-Bag walks up to the machine shop, where one of his gang brothers buffs a piece of metal. “I’m looking to do some damage,” T-Bag tells him. T-Bag wants a weapon that will not only kill, but will cause severe suffering to its victim. The gang member reaches below a cabinet and pulls out a jagged knife. “I call it The Gutter,” he tells T-Bag. T-Bag takes the blade, conceals it in a book and walks away.

Michael limps into visitation where Veronica sits at a table. She notices his limp, worries about his welfare, but he cuts her off and asks about the woman she went to see. Veronica tells him that her name is Leticia. “Leticia Barris?” Michael asks. Michael tells her that he tried the same routes to uncovering the truth behind Lincoln’s case that Veronica is now pursuing. He learned, however, that the whole conspiracy against Lincoln is a “bottomless pit.” Veronica tells Michael that Leticia was scared away before she could get more information, but she’s going to visit her today at the Elysian Fields Projects. Michael tells her she should bring somebody, maybe her fiancé. Veronica replies, “That’s the last thing Sebastian would want to do.”

LJ and Lisa sit across from probation officer, Jenae Conlin. Jenae puzzles over how a privileged, exemplary student turns to drug dealing. She mentions that Lisa has told her about Lincoln. Immediately, LJ darkens. Jenae feels that LJ has a lot of misdirected anger and intends to make sure that he doesn’t screw up his life as a result of it. She demands that LJ check in with her on a weekly basis and maintain good grades and attendance at school. LJ is happy to cooperate, but she throws in one more condition. “And to give you a real good idea where that anger of yours will get you if you don't rein it in, I'm signing you up for the Saturdays Scared Straight program at Fox River. You'll have a mentor who'll work with you weekly to give you a little perspective.” LJ gets nervous. A mentor? Jenae replies, “Your father.”

During P.I. duty in the laundry room, Michael walks past Sucre and opens a small electrical box. Sucre watches as Michael pulls the cell phone from his pocket, wraps it in a towel and stuffs it in the box. “Tell me that ain’t what I think it is,” pleads Sucre. Sucre tells Michael that if a C.O. catches him with a cell phone, two years can be added to his sentence automatically. But as his thoughts turn to Maricruz, Sucre’s fear quickly turns into interest. “But, that means you can make calls whenever you want, right?” he asks Michael. Michael slowly walks over to Sucre. “I don’t like that look in your eye.” Michael tells Sucre to forget what he saw.

In Lincoln’s cell, Pope glances at a blank form. “Why didn’t you include any names?” Pope asks. Lincoln scoffs back, “Why would I want anyone to watch me die?” Pope implores him to think it over, but Lincoln says he’ll go it alone. Pope takes a step towards Lincoln. As warden, he’s seen people go all ways. But those who went alone, “deeply regretted it in their final minutes.”

Veronica enters Leticia’s apartment complex. She treads up the stairs and finds Leticia’s apartment slightly ajar. “Hello?” she calls. No answer. She pushes the door open, but Leticia swings around the door and trains a pistol at Veronica. “Don’t you move a muscle!” she threatens. Paranoia has completely overwhelmed Leticia since Veronica’s last meeting with her. Leticia accuses Veronica of working with the government, the same people who killed Crab. Veronica pleads for Leticia to drop the gun and just hear her out. She notices that Leticia is packing her bags; she’s clearly about to run. Veronica tries to persuade her to come to her office and to give her statement. Leticia is terrified. She’s not as strong as Crab was, she says. She can’t take these people on. Veronica vows to protect her and reminds her that she may be the only one who can save Lincoln’s life and avenge Crab’s murder. All Leticia has to do is make a statement, sign it and then Veroncia swears she’ll drive her to the airport herself. She can disappear forever.

Sucre walks through the laundry room and pauses. He looks up at the electric box where Michael hid the cell phone.

In his pen, Lincoln walks along the fence and sees Sucre in the yard. He’s talking to some other inmates in Spanish. It appears he’s talking about the cell phone.

On the way back to his cell, Lincoln kneels, allowing a C.O. to unshackle him. Lincoln sees Bellick down the hall and calls him over. “I want some extra time outside the next couple weeks.” Bellick sneers at him, wondering if the paint fumes from P.I. are getting to him. Lincoln is prepared to horse trade. He hints that he knows about a con who has a cell phone. That gets Bellick’s attention. Bellick agrees to give Lincoln an extra half hour a week outside. Lincoln rises from his knees, heads into his cell, and as Bellick prepares to lock him down, says “You know a con named Sucre?”

In visitation, Abruzzi sits across from Falzone who wants to know if Abruzzi has broken Michael yet. Abruzzi tells him that Michael just won’t crack and slides a small cardboard box across the table. Falzone opens it, grimacing slightly. “Are these his?” Falzone sighs, now seeing that Abruzzi has a challenge ahead of him. He needs to find “other ways” to get to Michael. Abruzzi tells Falzone not to worry. He’ll get the job done. Then the gate opens, and Abruzzi’s kids run to the table, “Daddy, Daddy! Did you hear the news? We’re going to stay with Uncle Philly at the lake for a few weeks!” Falzone stares at Abruzzi and tells him that he has the utmost confidence that John will, in fact, come through. Abruzzi looks at Falzone, disgusted.

“How are those bone yard visits going with that girlfriend of yours?” Bellick asks as he approaches Sucre in a holding cell. Bellick informs Sucre that conjugal visits are only for married couples, to which Sucre defensively replies that he and Maricruz are engaged. Sucre begs to keep his conjugal visits. Bellick assures Sucrre that he won’t take them away. “But in exchange, you have to tell me where the cell phone is.” Sucre plays dumb. Bellick gives him another chance to save his conjugals before they’re gone forever. Sucre bites his lip.

Michael and Lincoln are painting a pillar in the laundry room when Bellick and several officers escort Sucre in. They all steadily march towards Michael. Michael’s face tenses. Bellick stops. “Turner! Your transfer came in. They want you down in administration.” The two brothers exchange a look of relief as Bellick turns to leave. When the coast is clear, Sucre angrily approaches Michael. “All I gotta say is that I better get to make all the calls I want.” Michael replies, “Gonna be kind of hard.” Michael pulls out the phone and hands it to Sucre. Sucre looks puzzled, and then snaps the phone in half. It was a sculpted and painted bar of soap. “Soap? I lost my conjugals over soap?” Sucre flicks the pieces at Michael. Michael tells Sucre that they’re planning to break out and that he had to test Sucre to see if they could trust him. Sucre is out of his mind with anger. Not only does he want no part of an escape plan, but Sucre threatens that if Michael continues to dig in their cell, he will split Michael’s wig.

Having successfully coaxed Leticia to her office, Veronica sits at her computer, poised to record Leticia’s testimony. She describes a man in a white cap who came to Crab’s door to do “big business.” White Cap, Leticia remembers, was not the kind of low-life Crab usually dealt with. Something about him was different. She recalls watching them go outside to meet with two other associates who in flashback are revealed to be Kellerman and Hale. She describes Kellerman and Hale as acting as though they were untouchable, “like they owned the place. Like they were government.” Veronica struggles with what government officials would want with a felonious drug dealer like Crab and how it would translate to Lincoln. All Leticia knows is that men who seemed to be government affiliated paid Lincoln’s ninety thousand dollar debt to Crab and the next thing she knew, Lincoln was arrested for murder and Crab was dead from a supposed “overdose.” Veronica types up the story, struggling to connect the dots in her mind. Still jittery and paranoid, Leticia heads to a nearby lounge to smoke a cigarette.

Dr. Tancredi examines Michael’s foot. She finds no redness or swelling; he’s healing well. But she’s still concerned for his well-being. “Michael, you understand by law I’m obligated to file a report if I feel there’s been prisoner misconduct.” Michael tells her that if she files that report, things could get worse for him. Sara asks him if he’s afraid. Michael recounts a story from his childhood, about how his brother helped him face his fear of monsters in the closet. His brother told him that you face your fear by opening the closet door and seeing that nothing’s there. Fear doesn’t exist. It’s not even air. Michael tells her that in prison, when you face your fear, when you open the closet, there are a 100 more doors, and the monsters are very real. Sara offers to send him to protective custody for his safety, but Michael refuses.

Veronica looks up from her typing with a start as someone walks into her office. It’s Kellerman, who introduces himself with a smile. He knows she’s looking into Lincoln’s case, and while he is sure they got the right man, he tells her that if she “comes across anything that could shed some light on his innocence, I’m offering my help.” Veronica thanks him guardedly and as soon as he’s gone, her thoughts turn to Leticia. She searches the lounge, but finds only a coil of smoke rising from a cigarette still burning in the ashtray. Veronica races out of the office and into the Chicago streets, but she doesn’t find her. All she sees is a man in a trench coat step into a car which proceeds to speed away. Just then, her cell phone rings. It’s her fiancé, Sebastian. He’s at the reception hall with the vendors. They scheduled meetings with the wedding planner today. Veronica cannot think about that now. She hangs up, her thoughts on Leticia who may have just disappeared for good.

Abruzzi and his cellmate, Gus, look down at Michael limping back to his cell. Abruzzi mutters, “We could cut off all his limbs, he still wouldn't talk. Pain's not the answer here. Maybe the Beatles were right. Maybe all you need is love.”

Michael returns to the cell to find Sucre packing his things for a cell transfer. Still angry, Sucre tells him that he’s going somewhere with a normal cellmate and not someone whose crazy plans threaten to ruin his chances of getting out. Michael begs Sucre to stay, but Sucre is resolute. “Fish, listen to me. I got 16 months. I got a fiancée to think about. I get caught with a hole in my wall, I don't see the real world for another 5 years. I can’t do that.” Sucre grabs his belongings and pushes past Michael.

Reverend Mailor sits on Lincoln’s bed while Lincoln squats on the floor. Echoing Pope’s sentiments, Mailor questions Lincoln’s desire to exclude his family from his last days. Lincoln doesn’t want to cause anyone any more pain and wonders why he should ask anyone to be with him in his final hours. Mailor tells him, “It’s about how you want to leave this world. What is the last image you want to take with you? A stranger?”

In the mess hall, T-Bag glowers, concealing the jagged-edged “Gutter” beneath the table as Michael clears his food tray. T-Bag stands to make a move but is stopped by Abruzzi. “Got an issue with our little friend there?” Abruzzi asks. T-Bag blows off Abruzzi. He doesn’t need Abruzzi’s okay to settle the score with Michael. Abruzzi corrects him. “Everything runs through me in here.” T-Bag snarls that he wants Michael. Abruzzi replies, “Seems you and I have something in common.”

As the inmates march out of the mess hall, one of Abruzzi’s goons shoulders Michael and forces him through an open door leading to a vacant kitchen annex where Abruzzi waits. Michael steels himself, but Abruzzi warns, “Easy now, fish. Don't make this any harder than it needs to be. It’s time we came to an arrangement, don’t you think?” On cue, T-Bag walks out from behind Abruzzi. T-Bag approaches Michael, “Gutter” in hand, preaching his twisted thoughts. “You know, I was thinking I was gonna gut you bow to stern soon as I laid eyes on you. But alackaday you look so pretty when you’re scared, don’t you? Maybe we ought to get the love out of the way before we get on to the hate. What do you say to that, Pretty? Maybe it's time I lit up that leather once and for all.” T-Bag takes one more step forward, and out of nowhere, Abruzzi elbows him in the face. The goons grab T-Bag and beat him down. Abruzzi escorts Michael out of the backroom before the C.O.s arrive. “That back there's my way of saying I know I've gone about this whole thing the wrong way. I'm trying to make amends here,” Abruzzi extends a hand to Michael, who pieces together the unexpected events with a quizzical look at the mercurial John Abruzzi.

As the inmates file out to the yard in their daily processional, Abruzzi asks what Michael needs from him. “A trade. You get me a plane, I’ll give you Fibonacci.” Abruzzi presses Michael further about the specific date and time of the escape. Michael holds the information back; he doesn’t trust Abruzzi that much yet.

Lincoln walks into the visitation cage, escorted by a guard, Louis. Lincoln asks Louis to take off the shackles and Louis says no, but Lincoln begs. “Ten minutes, please! It’s my kid.” Lincoln sits before LJ, the conversation is awkward. Lincoln tells LJ that he has to decide who should attend his execution. LJ squirms as Lincoln tells him how important he is to him. Lincoln presses his hand to the cage and asks that LJ do the same. Their fingers meet and Lincoln asks that LJ be there the day before he dies so Lincoln can see him, hug him one more time before his death. “I love you,” Lincoln mumbles. Tears well up in LJ’s eyes. “I’ve always loved you.” LJ blurts out that he doesn’t know if he can handle this. Lincoln replies, “Neither do I. But I don’t really have a choice. But you do.”

Veronica is late for a dinner out with Sebastian, who unsuccessfully tries to mask his frustration. Veronica rattles off her discoveries about Lincoln’s case, but Sebastian cuts her off and asks pointedly, “Do you want to get married or not?” Veronica says that she’s unsure and maybe they should postpone it for now. Sebastian counters with an ultimatum; if Veronica wants to postpone, then they should cancel it. Veronica sighs, then simply tells Sebastian, “I’m sorry.” “I’ll come get my stuff tomorrow,” he says as he walks away from the table.

In his cell, Michael flips open a hollowed-out book that stores his homemade allen wrench. Before he can dismantle the toilet, Bellick yells out, “Open on Forty!” Michael quickly conceals the bolt into his front pocket as Bellick swaggers in. “Scofield. Found you a new cellie. As luck would have it, I found him in Psych Ward. You were the only guy with an open tray, so...” Bellick is enjoying the moment and brings in a man introduced simply as “Haywire.” Haywire lurks at the cell door, clutching his possessions. “Oh, and Scofield. Just a heads up. Don’t make eye contact with him.”

In the yard, Michael walks along the fence near Lincoln. Michael tells Lincoln about Haywire. There’s no way they can bring Haywire into the plan. Michael will just have to work at night. “How far behind are we?” Lincoln asks. “Three days,” Michael says flatly. “I thought you said the margin of error was zero days,” Lincoln asks. “I did,” Michael says as he walks away.

Hale and Kellerman’s sedan creeps into a secluded clearing. Kellerman maintains a cool demeanor even as they open the trunk to reveal a bound and gagged Leticia. Kellerman instructs Hale to take her into the woods to dispose of her. Hale protests, but Kellerman is firm. Hale drags Leticia into the woods and forces her to the ground. Hale apologizes to Leticia for what he’s about to do. But before he can pull the trigger, a train whistle startles him. Leticia uses the distraction to get up and start running. Hale fires, striking her in the leg. As Hale approaches, Leticia begs for her life. Hale looks in her eyes, gun trained, but he just can’t squeeze the trigger. A gunshot rings out. Kellerman stands over Leticia’s dead body. He coldly tells Hale, “Pick up the casings.”

Michael waits until Haywire is quiet before he begins working again. He inserts the wrench into the bolt, but stops when he feels Haywire’s eyes on him. He slowly turns and, indeed, Haywire is watching him from the top bunk. Unnerved, Michael asks what Haywire’s problem is. “I have a neuroanatomic lesion affecting my reticular activating system,” Haywire replies. Michael asks, “What’s that mean?”

Haywire replies, “It means I don’t sleep. At all.”




Prison Break
Episode 104 - "Cute Poison"
Airdate: 09/12/2005

Asleep in his darkened cell, Lincoln jerks awake as the fluorescent lights snap on and the cell door slams open. Bellick storms into the cell with a crowd of C.O.s behind him. The C.O.s wrestle Lincoln off his cot as Bellick barks, “On your feet.” Lincoln struggles against the guards, demanding to know what’s happening. His questions are ignored by the guards, who rush him into a long, sterile corridor toward a metal door.

The door opens to reveal an execution chamber. Faceless onlookers watch Lincoln impassively through a glass window. Lincoln’s eyes grow huge as he sees the prepped electric chair. He looks again to Bellick, insisting “I’ve got a month left!” But the C.O.s force Lincoln into the chair and strap down his arms and legs. One C.O. wets Lincoln’s forehead with a sponge while another places a metal halo on his head. Lincoln fights to keep from hyperventilating, begging Bellick for mercy. Bellick leans towards Lincoln and murmurs, “Make your peace.” He pulls a black hood over Lincoln’s face and gives the signal to two C.O.s who pull the control switch. Lincoln’s body begins to shake.

Lincoln wakes up in his cell, still shaking. He sits up, haunted. His head sinks into his hands.

Michael crouches next to the toilet in his cell. He’s managed to pull it out about a foot from the wall and he uses his homemade allen wrench to scrape out the concrete between the cinder blocks. “Open on forty!” an unseen C.O. shouts out. Michael quickly pushes the toilet back to the wall as his cell door opens and Haywire returns. Michael’s new cellmate hops onto the top bunk and Michael asks, “Haywire, you ever thought about breaking out?” Haywire scoffs at the idea. On the outside, he’d face a barrage of halfway houses, psych visits, meds, parole officers, urine tests, and trying to keep a job. Haywire advises Michael that anyone who has suspicions of an escape plan should tell Bellick. “He’ll make life easier for you if…” Haywire trails off, distracted by Michael’s tattoos. “What are they of?” he asks. Michael quickly grabs a long sleeve shirt and covers his skin, telling Haywire curtly, “They’re just tattoos.” A C.O. calls into the cell, “It’s candy time, Haywire.” Haywire walks to the bars where a doctor hands him a cup of meds. Haywire swallows, then opens his mouth and moves his tongue around to prove that he took the pills. As soon as the doctor and the C.O. leave, Haywire pushes past Michael to the toilet and forces himself to vomit up the pills. Michael notes that maybe he’s being given those pills for a reason. Haywire replies, “Yeah, to keep me in their invisible freakin’ handcuffs.” Haywire steps towards Michael. “Seriously, though. Those tattoos. They’re beautiful. Mind if I, you know, see the whole thing?” Michael says yes, he does, and moves towards the opening door as inmates are released for yard time.

Outside, Michael crosses toward Sucre. Before Michael can say a word, Sucre brushes past, saying, “I’m not even talking to you.” Michael’s eyes turn and follow Sucre out, and then lock on Haywire, who stands by himself, staring at Michael’s torso. Michael turns away from Haywire, and rolls up his sleeve. He examines a tattoo on his forearm. It’s an overturned jug spilling liquid down a drain. The jug’s label reads, “CUTE POISON.” As Michael studies the tattoo, he flashes back to his old apartment where a web of documents are affixed to his wall. With a red marker he writes “CUTE POISON” across a page containing a complex chemical equation. Back in the yard, Abruzzi finds Michael and searches his face, suspicious. “What’s the problem?” Abruzzi asks. He pushes further to find out why Michael looks so tortured, Michael nods towards Haywire, who still stares at Michael’s torso. “That’s my new cellmate. He doesn’t sleep.” Which means, Michael tells Abruzzi, there is no digging. Abruzzi tells Michael that either he takes care of his problem, or Abruzzi is going to take care of Michael.

“It’s really coming together, isn’t it?” Warden Pope asks Michael as they survey Michael’s progress on the massive Taj Mahal model. Michael tells Pope that there’s still plenty to do, but they should be ready in time for Pope’s anniversary. Pope, grateful, says he wishes he could pay Michael for his help. Michael mentions that he would appreciate a cellmate transfer, if possible. Pope shakes his head. Bellick is in charge all cell transfers and unless there are extreme circumstances such as violence or sexual predation, the prison is too crowded to accommodate transfer requests. The door to Pope’s main office opens and Becky, Pope’s assistant, walks in closing the door behind her. “Warden, sorry, but your wife is here.” Caught off-guard, Pope slides out of the Taj Mahal room, careful that his wife doesn’t catch a glimpse of her anniversary present-to-be.

Pope tries to hurry his wife, Judy, out of the office, but she pauses and studies him. “You’re acting funny. What’s going on in there?” She motions towards the room housing the Taj. Pope tries to placate her, but this only piques her interest further. “This isn’t Toledo all over again, is it?” Pope is wounded by her vague insinuation. She takes a step towards the door, but Michael opens it before she can get any closer. “Warden, I’m not going to be able to cooperate. I’d get killed if I did. Johnson’s still deciding.” A look of relief on his face, Pope orders Michael back to his cell.

Lincoln enters the Attorney/Client visiting room, his hands and ankles shackled. Veronica stands at the table, waiting for him. “What are you doing?” he asks. “I’m your attorney,” she replies carefully. “If that’s all right with you.” Lincoln is hesitant. The last time they spoke she called him a liar and suspected that the judge who sentenced him to death “got it right.” Veronica explains that things have changed. She sits down and tells him that Leticia Barris corroborated his story. Unfortunately, Leticia is missing, and Veronica suspects that the Secret Service is involved. Lincoln knows that Veronica can’t do this alone, especially with government agencies working against them. He points her to Project Justice, a law firm that deals exclusively with death row cases. Lincoln has sent copies of his casework to a man there named Ben Forsik and Veronica agrees to follow up with him. Lincoln pauses, then asks about Sebastian. Veronica tells him that the engagement is off. Lincoln tells her that he’s sorry, to which Veronica coyly replies, “At least say it like you mean it.” Veronica gets up and heads for the door. Lincoln thanks her for coming to help. She offers a smile. “You can thank me when I get you out of here.”

Sucre is in the yard, leaning on the payphones. “Baby, it’s me. You there? Hello?” Another inmate, Trokey, steps up behind Sucre. “If she is, she obviously don’t want to talk to you.” Sucre tries to focus on his message, calmly urging Maricruz to come and see him.

Michael walks away from the showers with a towel wrapped around his waist. While his back is turned, Haywire approaches, his fixation on Michael’s tattoo now a full-fledged obsession. “It’s a pattern.” Michael turns quickly, his eyes focused. “What did you say?” Haywire repeats himself, and Michael tells him he’s seeing things. Michael covers his back with a towel and quickly walks off.

In private conference in Pope’s office, Pope attacks Bellick’s cell transfer decision. “Putting him in with Haywire is a low blow, Deputy.” Bellick responds that as long as he stays on his meds, Haywire is as harmless as a kitten. He also remind Pope that if Michael starts getting preferential treatment, it might ruin the Pope’s credibility with other inmates. While Pope intends to recommend Bellick to succeed him upon his retirement, Bellick has got to learn the value of rehabilitation.

Anticipating a long overdue visit with Maricruz, Sucre enters visitation with a spring in his step. A C.O. cuts him off and ushers him into a secure room. Sucre asks why he’s not going to open visitation, but the C.O. just says, “Ask your visitor.” Sucre turns and sees Hector stroll towards the cage. Sucre and Hector sit with glass, metal and no shortage of animosity between them. “What are you doing here? Where’s Maricruz?” Sucre asks. Hector coolly tells him that Maricruz isn’t going to be coming around to see him anymore. “She’s with me now.” Sucre loses control, shouting threats in angry Spanish from the cage enclosing him. A C.O. rushes in to restrain him. Hector backs away from the glass, smirking. “You’re just proving my point, man.”

Michael strides into the prison’s Toxic Control Center and flips a carton of cigarettes to the inmate trustee, Choppy. Choppy nods his head in the direction of the chemical supplies and warns Michael, “Make it quick.” Back among the shelves of bottles and buckets, Michael finds a bottle of masonry cleaner. He flashes back to his apartment where he studies a chemistry textbook. Two bold titles read, “Copper Sulfate” and “Phosphoric Acid.” Back in the Control Center, Michael slips the bottle of masonry cleaner into a sock sewn inside his jacket. He looks up as he hears Choppy’s voice, raised unnaturally, calling out, “Yeah, uhh, he’s right in here.” Choppy’s talking to Bellick, who finds Michael in the store room and informs him, “You’re in a restricted area.” Michael tries to cover by saying he’s looking for fertilizer, but Bellick asks why he’s in the masonry section. Bellick searches Michael for contraband, barely missing the hidden bottle. “Oh by way, how’s the foot?” Bellick asks as he jams his boot down on Michael’s injured foot. Michael drops to the floor and Bellick gets in his face, “Don’t ever go around me to the Pope again.” Bellick lifts Michael up and forces him out of the Control Center.

Michael finishes brushing his teeth in his cell. He turns around and states, “You know what Haywire? I don’t think we’re going to work out. And since I was here first, I think you should go.” Haywire sits on his bunk, clutching a pillow. “I crapped my pants once in junior high.” Michael’s eyes roll as Haywire continues his bizarre personal story. Michael scans Haywire’s belongings, a brush, toothbrush, and toothpaste. He turns and makes sure that Haywire’s attention is elsewhere, then quickly steals Haywire’s toothpaste. He stands over the toilet and squeezes much of the toothpaste out. Having finished recounting his embarrassing tale, Haywire insists that now it’s Michael’s turn to share a secret. Michael again tells him that the tattoos don’t mean anything.

Abruzzi leans up against the front of Michael’s cell. “Making any progress in there?” he asks. Michael’s answer is no, both to the digging and to his relationship with Haywire. Michael says he knows what to do, but Abruzzi, growing increasingly patient, doesn’t think Michael has the guts.

In the yard, Sucre charges toward the phones – they’re all occupied. Sucre approaches Trokey who’s mid-conversation and demands that he wrap up his call. Trokey blows Sucre off and Sucre hangs up Trokey’s call. Trokey makes a move towards Sucre, but backs down when Sucre holds his ground. “I thought so,” Sucre mutters as he begins to dial. Maricruz, on her cell phone, picks up. Sucre immediately asks about her and Hector. But Maricruz has a question of her own, “When were you going to tell me that Rita Saldana has been visiting?” She tells Sucre that Hector told her about Rita, which only makes Sucre more furious. He begs her not to listen to Hector’s lies, but Maricruz is torn. Just as Sucre starts to calm her down, and reassure her that he’ll be out in sixteen months, Hector walks up behind Maricruz. “I’m sorry, I have to go,” she says quickly as she hangs up on Sucre.

Veronica sits inside the Project Justice offices, across from Ben Forsik and Nick Savrinn. Ben tells Veronica that unless she’s uncovered any new evidence that she can provide them with, she’s probably wasting her time. Nick tries to ask her a follow-up question, but Ben cuts him off. Project Justice receives thousands of cases and they have to be selective about what they work on because they have limited help. Veronica says that she will do all of the leg work; Veronica just wants Nick and Ben to point her in the right direction. Ben apologizes, but says that he just doesn’t have the man power to take on her case. Veronica, dejected, gets up and leaves.

Hale sits in his car. He watches in the rear view mirror as Veronica exits the Project Justice building and walks to her car. He calls Kellerman, who is going through items in Veronica’s home. Hale tells him he has about thirty minutes to find something before Veronica returns. Kellerman says, “I’m not going to nearly need that much time. I’ve turned up quite a bit already.” Kellerman’s gloved hand raises a photo from Veronica’s graduation day. She’s flanked by Lincoln and Michael.

Haywire arranges his things in the cell and notices his toothpaste has gone missing. When he asks Michael about it, Michael answers simply that he hasn’t seen it.

In his new cell, Sucre lies on his bunk, looking longingly up at a photo of him and Maricruz.

As Michael sleeps, Haywire uses a razor blade to methodically slice open Michael’s shirt and tear away the fabric, exposing his tattoo. Michael jerks awake and springs back, issuing a menacing warning for Haywire to get away from him. Haywire is transfixed as he whispers, “The tattoos, there’s a maze.” Michael repeats his threat for Haywire to stay back, but Haywire claims the tattoo is pulling him in. Michael issues one more stern warning and Haywire pulls back, muttering to himself, “It’s a maze. The man’s got a maze on his skin. But why would he do that? Why would he have a maze on his skin?”

The next day, Michael tells Abruzzi he needs help getting a bottle of drain line root control. “Sooner than later.”

Officer Phil Weston walks out of the police station where Veronica is waiting for him; she wants to ask him a few questions. She confirms that Weston was the first officer to respond at Lincoln’s apartment on the night of Steadman’s murder. Veronica asks what exactly he saw that night at Lincoln’s apartment. Weston states he found Lincoln in the bathroom washing a pair of bloody pants. Veronica immediately cites a discrepancy. In his report, Weston said that he said he saw Lincoln merely standing in the bathroom. “You later testified that you actually saw him washing the pants. Which is it?” Weston brushes it off. “Does it matter?” Considering how heavily his testimony factored in the verdict, Veronica insists it does. Weston grows defensive and walks off. As Veronica walks to her car, a voice calls out to her. It’s Nick Savrinn from Project Justice. He tells her that while his boss didn’t think Lincoln’s case was worth looking into, he thinks otherwise.

Michael sits on a bench in the yard, aware that Haywire is standing a good distance behind him, watching and sketching in a notepad. Abruzzi sits down next to Michael. In Abruzzi’s hand is a bottle of root control, and behind the bottle is a nasty looking knife. “There’s a quicker way to take care of your problem,” Abruzzi tells Michael. Michael reaches for the bottle. “There’s smarter ways too,” Michael replies.

In his cell, Michael packs two toothpaste tubes, one with root control the other with the masonry cleaner. He flashes back to his apartment, where he tests the chemicals. When they are combined, the chemicals react violently. In his cell, Michael finishes packing the chemicals in.

Veronica and Nick sit outside at a café. Nick tells her, “ What stood out for me was that most death penalty cases take ten years to exhaust all appeals. Lincoln got there in three.” Veronica wonders who might have pushed the appeal through to be rejected so quickly, but Nick says that’s not what interests him. It’s why it was pushed through so quickly. Perhaps the answer lies in who Terrence Steadman was and who his enemies might have been. Steadman was successfully pushing alternative energy. So the oil companies, the Saudis, even our own governement could have wanted him dead. Veronica asks why Nick took up investigating death row cases. Nick explains that his own father did time for a crime he didn’t commit. He knows that when the government gets you in their crosshairs, you stand very little chance of getting out.

Sucre rushes across the yard to catch up with Michael. “I want back in!” he begs. Michael tells Sucre that it’s not that easy with Haywire around, but Michael has a plan to fix the situation. Sucre asks for details. Michael replies, “Let’s just say somebody’s gonna get hurt.”

Kellerman and Hale drive through Chicago, explaining to a cell phone propped on the dashboard how they missed the fact that Michael and Lincoln are brothers. Irritation laces the Garlic Cutter’s voice as she pieces together their discoveries. “Alright, Scofield had no priors and a full time job as an engineer. Then he goes and robs a bank, discharging a gun in the process. At sentencing he maneuvers his way to Fox River... where his brother’s scheduled to die in less than a month.“ Things like this are never a coincidence. The Garlic Cutter orders them to take Michael out of the picture.

Michael strolls back in his cell to see Haywire huddled over the bottom bunk. Haywire has spread out a series of sketches that are identical to the images on Michael’s tattoos. “It’s a pathway…where does it lead?” Haywire asks as he lunges for Michael. Michael forces him back and turns back to the bars. He grabs hold of the cell door, rears his head back and bashes it into the metal bars. He steels himself, then slams his head again as Haywire stands behind him, stunned. Michael calls out, “Officer! I need an officer!” Two C.O.s move in. They see Michael’s injuries and move in on Haywire. When Haywire refuses to step back, the officers spray him with pepper spray and drag him from the cell. Michael steps out to watch him being taken away, blood from his self-inflicted wound trickling from his forehead.

Michael’s cell door opens, Sucre is waiting with belongings in hand. Bellick steps between them, “So, the gang’s all back together again. Well, ain’t that swell.” Sucre is excited to be back and after an awkward attempt at a multi-step handshake, they settle on a hug before Sucre gets down to business. “So, when do we get started?”

In the infirmary, Michael waits for Sara to step away, then moves to the drainage grate on the floor. He takes the two tubes of toothpaste out of his pockets and gives them a squeeze, expelling the chemicals into the drain where they immediately start reacting. Dr. Tancredi returns and asks about the cut on his head, but doesn’t believe his reply about “catching an elbow playing basketball.” She tells him that he’s going to get killed in the yard. Michael just smiles. “I’ll make you a bet. When I get out of here, alive, I’ll take you to dinner.” Sara ignores him. “Or lunch. Or coffee, even.” Sara offers him a grim warning. “Michael, this charm act could be exactly what’s getting you into trouble out in the yard.” In the grates below, the chemicals are hissing, beginning to corrode the pipe.

Nick and Veronica meet with Lincoln, going over the details of the night of his arrest for the murder of Terrence Steadman. Lincoln relives the events. He remembers that when he returned home after fleeing the crime scene, he splashed water on his face before noticing something strange in the bathtub. He turned to find a pair of his own pants, soaked in blood under the running water. He didn’t have any time to react before cops stormed in and placed him under arrest. Veronica asks Lincoln if he was washing the pants to remove Steadman’s blood like the arresting officer claims. Lincoln swears he never touched them; his hands were wet from splashing water on his face. As if this testimony wasn’t shaky enough, Nick reminds Lincoln that his prints were all over the gun the cops found. Lincoln again swears that he’s innocent, that the gun he had intended to use but never fired was still missing after he dumped it in a storm drain somewhere on the way home. The gun the prosecutors used must have been a plant. “And the fingerprints?” Nick wants to know how Lincoln’s prints were all over the gun. Lincoln remembers a man named Bo (the white capped associate of Crab Simmons whom Leticia previously described to Veronica) who had him handle a few different guns before he picked the one he had the night of the murder. It was all a set up from the beginning. Lincoln urges them to believe him. He had to do what Bo told him, Lincoln reveals, not only to clear a debt, but because they threatened to kill LJ.

Nick voices the dismal prospects Lincoln’s case holds as they leave the prison. The only evidence that sounds promising for Lincoln is the surveillance tape from the night of the murder. “Well if Lincoln’s telling the truth, then the tape’s lying. I think we’d better go have a look and decide for ourselves.”

Sucre keeps a lookout with a mirror while Michael gets to work unscrewing the toilet. Sucre asks why he needs to spend so much time in the infirmary. “Once we get through this wall, that’s just the start. There’s still a whole lot of real estate between here and the walls. Infirmary just happens to be the closest building to those walls.” Michael has dug out enough concrete between the cinder blocks to kick through the wall, but in order to do it, he needs Sucre to make some noise to cover the sound of Michael’s kicking. Sucre begins singing. Within moments, it riles up the other inmates and they all start screaming. Lincoln in his cell is again. jolted awake, this time by the sound of Sucre singing. Having more than enough noise cover, Michael kicks on the cinder blocks, and breaks through to the other side. The floor alarm goes off and Bellick enters, shouting a warning. “Next inmate that opens his mouth goes to the hole!” Sucre checks the catwalks again. “We’re good.” Michael pokes his head into the hole and for the first time, sees the prison bowels.

Hale is eating dinner at home with his family, when the doorbell rings. It’s Kellerman, “I just wanted to stop by and tell you in person. Problem solved.” He hands Hale a copy of Michael’s newly authorized transfer order. “Michael Scofield is getting shipped out…tomorrow.”




Prison Break
Episode 105 - "English, Fitz or Percy"
Airdate: 09/19/2005

Back in the tattoo parlor where Michael’s plan first took shape, Sid, the artist, finishes filling in three boldly lettered words on Michael’s arm: “ENGLISH” “FITZ” “PERCY.”

In the present, Pope sits at his desk before two unexpected visitors, Agents Kellerman and Hale. They’ve come seeking answers about why Pope rejected Michael’s transfer request. Pope is firm on his position. The inmates of Fox River are his responsibility. He wouldn’t come into Kellerman or Hale’s house and tell them where to put their furniture. What that means is that, “unless Scofield’s done something I don’t know about, he’ll be staying at Fox River under my watch.” Kellerman replies softly that it has been their experience that everyone has done something that they don’t want people to know about. Kellerman slips Pope a file whose label reads “ TOLEDO,” “POPE, HENRY.” Pope says that his wife already knows about Toledo. Kellerman responds, “Does she really?” Pope’s face goes grim, as he opens the file. Inside is a black and white photo of a young man lying on a blood-soaked pavement. Kellerman says, “You’re a smart man, Warden. I’m sure if you look hard enough, you can find a reason why Scofield’s presence is no longer required at this correctional facility.”

Michael works on P.I., hunched over a long tube of PVC piping. He calls out to a nearby C.O. that he needs to grab more. The C.O. looks to the supply shed and nods his permission. Moments later, Lincoln breaks his shovel and he asks the guard to get a replacement. The guard again agrees. Abruzzi walks out of the work shed and announces, “We got a ripped fertilizer bag. You,” Abruzzi points to Sucre, “clean it up before the whole place starts smelling like San Juan.” Sucre does his best to ignore the dig to his homeland, and walks into the shed.

Now gathered in the privacy of the shed, the four men eye one another. Abruzzi asks Michael what this meeting is about. “These are the guys we’re breaking out with,” Michael explains. There’s immediate tension within the group. Abruzzi says there’s no way he’ll work with Lincoln. Lincoln gets in Abruzzi’s face, “Touch my brother, and I’ll break your face.” Abruzzi looks to Michael, then back to Lincoln, realizing for the first time that the two are brothers. Michael reminds the group that they don’t have time for bickering. “I’m already through the wall in my cell. And there’s corrosive working through the access pipe to the Infirmary, even as we speak.” He then reveals why he’s gathered the team right now. “We have a decision to make. English. Fitz. Or Percy? Way I see it, if were gonna pull this off, we need to take one of them out.” The guys think Michael is crazy but Michael insists that this is an integral part of the plan.

As Michael and Sucre return to their cell, a C.O. escorts Michael in, but pulls Sucre aside. Michael enters to find Pope, sitting and waiting. “Why do I have the feeling there’s more to you than meets the eye, Scofield?” Michael doesn’t answer, his attention focused on beads of water that drip from the toilet right near Pope. Pope reveals the reason for his visit. “You’re being transferred.” Panic seizes Michael. Michael begs Pope to wait three weeks for the transfer. Lincoln is his brother. That’s why he requested Fox River, to be close with him before the execution. But Pope’s hands are tied. “You’re up against much bigger fish than me. You ship out tomorrow.”

Alone in his office, Pope studies the folder labeled, “ TOLEDO.” He flips though the contents, stopping at an article whose headline reads, “Youth Found Dead.” Pope closes the file and reaches inside his desk drawer and pulls out a Bible.

Lincoln and Michael sit in the prison chapel. “I’m going into the walls tonight. See if I can access the roof.” But Lincoln doesn’t want to hear about it; he wants to talk about the transfer. “When were you going to tell me?” Lincoln asks. Michael tells Lincoln that he’s going to take care of it. But Lincoln has his doubts. “ I’d made my peace with what was coming. Then you show up and give me the one thing a man in here should never have. Hope.” Michael flashes back to the memory of him and his brother as kids. Young Michael does not know how they’ll manage after the death of their mother. Young Lincoln promises that he will always take care of Michael and tells his younger brother to “Have a little faith.” Back in the chapel, Michael looks at his brother and reminds him to “have a little faith” as well.

Veronica and Nick dissect the surveillance tape from the night of Terrence Steadman’s murder. Nick points out that there are multiple inconsistencies. First, Steadman’s eye line from the car is high, like he’s looking at the camera on purpose. Second, after he parks, Steadman doesn’t leave the car; it’s as if he’s waiting for someone. Then, after the shooting, the tape sees Lincoln walk around the car and then rummage around the glove box. Nick questions if the person who enters the passenger side of the car is even Lincoln, “He’s heading away from the car. And then this guy, who conveniently keeps his face hidden from the camera, comes back in. Why?" While they’re building leads, questions to ruin the credibility of the tape, they’ll need something more solid to go to a judge with. If Lincoln didn’t fire the gun, then someone with some serious skills doctored the tape. Nick says he knows someone who can analyze the tape.

In the mess hall, Abruzzi confronts Michael; the transfer rumor has spread. Michael insists that he’s not being transferred and that he’s taking care of everything and reminds Abruzzi to provide him with a key by the time Pope leaves work tonight. Satisfied, Abruzzi walks away and Michael takes a seat next to Westmoreland. “ I need to know if there’s any way to block a transfer order,” Michael tells him. Westmoreland says there are many ways he can do it but the quickest is to simply write up a motion claiming that the transfer violates his Constitutional rights. The courts by law have to hear the motion, and until then, Michael can’t be moved from Fox River.

Dr. Tancredi and another nurse walk outside the infirmary. When Sara mentions that the state is requiring a physical for Lincoln, the nurse asks Sara if she heard the gossip about Lincoln and Michael being brothers. Sara has heard nothing.

Bellick enters Pope’s office and hands him a handwritten motion. Pope asks what it is. Bellick replies gruffly, “ Scofield. He’s blocking the transfer.”

Michael tells Sucre that he filed the motion to block his transfer. Even if it gets denied, it’ll still take thirty days to process the paperwork. Sucre is excited by this triumph, but Michael quickly gets down to business; he wants to go back into the walls immediately. Sucre scoffs, “ Yo, in case you didn’t notice, the lights are all on, and you got a live studio audience, Fish. How’re you gonna get around that?” Michael smiles. “Don’t we have some laundry to do?”

Later, Sucre wrings out a shirt that he’s washed in the small sink in their cell. He hangs shirts on a makeshift laundry line that spans the width of the cell. The clothes, dangling off the line, obscures the back wall of the cell from any potential onlookers. Michael, safely concealed, disassembles the toilet.

Abruzzi , meanwhile, walks in a line of inmates to the yard. He turns and gives a signal nod to another inmate. The inmate moves towards a C.O. overseeing the line-up and punches him in the face. A pile of inmates and C.O.s flail about on the ground, Abruzzi stands by and sees the fallen inmate has snagged a pair of guard keys and is pressing the keys into a bar of soap. A gun shot comes down from a guard in a tower and Aburzzi ducks to the ground. Nearby is the piece of soap, the imprint of a key is on one side.

Michael pulls the toilet from the wall and asks Sucre if it’s safe to proceed. “You’re clear. Swim, Fish, swim!” Sucre smiles.

Michael crawls through the hole and into a narrow, but extensive service corridor. Metal catwalks and pipes sprawl in all directions. Michael gets his bearings by locating several ducts around him and then lifts up his shirt and compares them to a section of tattoo on his right abdomen. He traces a path with his finger, and then starts the timer on his watch. He walks a few steps, and then pushes his way up to the catwalk above him. He keeps climbing until he sees the roof access. Suddenly, the door at the end of the hallway opens, a maintenance man enters only feet away from Michael.

Sucre is starting to worry. He sticks his head in the toilet, hoping Michael can hear him, “Fish! You’re taking too long, bro!”

The maintenance man in the service corridor stops to take a smoke break. Above him, spread out from wall to wall and clinging to the pipes is Michael, face down. His muscles tremble from the exertion of holding himself up. He sweats heavily and a single drop makes its way down his nose. The sweat drips from his nose and narrowly misses the man’s boot. Having finished his cigarette, the maintenance man turns and leaves.

Michael, back in the cell, puts the toilet back together. Sucre is frantically telling him, “ This ain’t gonna fly, man. The Ricans, we got genetically higher blood pressure, you know that? ” Michael tells Sucre that he can make it to the roof, and the next part of the plan is “all about timing.”

Abruzzi checks his watch: 3:50 PM. His cellmate, Gus, expertly melts a plastic toothbrush with a book of matches, guiding the liquid plastic into the key mold imprinted on the bar of soap.

In an office crammed with computer equipment, monitors and electronic devices, Veronica and Nick consult with video analyst, Chaz Fink. Chaz marvels at the tape. “ The thing’s clean. No footprints. Usually, you peel the video back a few layers, anything bogus comes right off. Now you see it, now you don’t, right? But not this one. It’s laced. Ingrained.” Chaz plays the tape again. Something catches his interest and he replays the audio track. “The problem with your eyes is that they play tricks on you, but ears? Ears don’t lie. ” He focuses on the sound of the gunshot. As soon as it’s fired, the sound waves immediately die. “ Stripped down, those levels should dance. Room that size, would give you, BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM . One off of each wall, a split second after each other. On yours, the reverb’s bouncing at the same time.” What this means, he tells an anxious Veronica, is that the sound of the gunshot was not recorded in the parking garage. Veronica grows excited. If Chaz will testify to that fact, they’ll have enough to take to a judge. Chaz is leery. He won’t testify unless he can get his hands on the original tape.

Michael huddles over the model of the Taj Mahal. Pope questions Michael about his “allergies,” the ones he cited in his motion. Michael replies, “ Sinusitis, yeah. It’s actually not an allergy, it’s a bacterial infection. But the moist air from the river along the East Wall, it helps keeps me,” Michael takes a deep breath, “You know. Clear.” Pope has to admire Michael’s initiative. He’s been in Fox River so short a time, yet he’s already figured out how to work the system. Michael presses Pope to reveal why it was Pope wanted him transferred. But Pope brushes off his question, pointing out that it’s almost five o’clock and they should call it a day. Michael tells Pope that if he left now, the support beam he’s holding would give in and the whole model would collapse. Michael says he has to stay and hold it in place until the glue dries. Pope agrees that Michael can stay. When he’s done, he’s to check in with Pope’s assistant, Becky, and she’ll have a guard escort him back to his cell. The Pope thanks Michael for showing up to work on the model, in spite of the outstanding transfer request. Michael smirks, “You’re welcome.”

The minute Pope leaves, Michael releases his hold on the support structure. It doesn’t collapse at all . Michael moves to the door where he listens to make sure the coast is clear. Pope is gone, but C.O. Patterson remains behind, flirting with Becky. Michael smiles, then moves to the rear door of the Pope’s office. It’s still locked. He looks at the clock: 4:55 PM.

Abruzzi skates down a corridor, pushing a janitorial bin with mops and brooms hanging from the side.

Pope arrives home and walks into the kitchen to find his wife, Judy, pouring some iced tea. Pope goes to grab a glass, but Judy slaps his hand away. She tells him that the iced tea is for his guests who are waiting in the den. An apprehensive Pope walks into the den; Hale and Kellerman are waiting.

The clock in the warden’s office reads 5:05 PM. Michael hears the sound of a key unlocking the rear door. He quietly opens the door, removes the plastic key, and joins a line of inmates walking as they file through the hall outside Pope’s door.

Back in his den, Pope explains to Kellerman and Hale that there is nothing he can do to accelerate Michael’s transfer. He’s legally obligated to file Michael’s motion with the court, which could take up to two months to be processed. Kellerman, frustrated, paces the room. “ I was looking at the morgue photos of that boy back in Toledo, Will Clayton. Spitting image of his daddy. Apple fell real far away from the tree with that one, didn’t it? Fell off the tree and all over the pavement.” Pope is furious, but Kellerman continues to push. They know that Judy and Pope worked things out after his affair, but that Judy does not know about Will, Pope’s illegitimate child. The Pope demands they leave, but Kellerman faces him and demands that the warden lose Michael’s motion. Judy enters to ask the agents if they’re staying for dinner, but the agents instantly turn on the charm and politely excuse themselves. Kellerman thanks Judy for the iced tea and tells Pope, “You better do everything you can to hold onto this one.” Pope, beaten, nods his head.

As soon as Kellerman and Hale leave, Pope enters his personal study and shreds Michael’s motion to deny transfer.

A guard secures Lincoln’s wrist and ankle shackles are secured, then gives Sara the all-clear to enter. She’s non-plussed to be there to perform the ironic task of making sure Lincoln is healthy enough for the state to kill him. “This,” she says, “is not why I went to medical school.” As part of the physical, Sara asks about the medical history for Lincoln’s mother, father and siblings. Lincoln pauses. Sara asks, “Anyone besides Michael?” Lincoln turns to her, not sure what to answer. “ Fox River ’s like a small town, Mr. Burrows. People don’t have much to do here besides time and talk.” She asks curious about their relationship. “He’s been abandoned his whole life. Dad, mom, she died young. And now me.” Sara wonders aloud if that’s why Michael is here, to be near his brother before his death.

Pope sits alone in his study, going over the “ TOLEDO” file. He flips through pictures of Will. First, his elementary school pictures and then the police photos of his body sprawled on he pavement. Pope’s eyes well up with tears.

Michael files into gen pop with the other inmates and checks his tattoo: “ENGLISH,” “FITZ” “PERCY.” He then looks at his watch: 5:44PM. He enters his cell and the doors close behind him. “It’s time.” Sucre panics. “Count’s in fifteen minutes! What are you doing?” Michael says it’s better off if he keeps Sucre in the dark.

Pope prays in the empty prison chapel. The Reverend enters, “ Don’t normally find you here at this hour. Are you seeking His forgiveness, or advice?” Pope says he doesn’t know anymore and he opens up about Will. “He was a criminal, and an addict. But he was only eighteen years old. I should have kept him on the right path.” The Reverend is familiar with this bit of Pope’s past. He reminds Pope that the woman he had the affair with made her terms very clear. Pope could not be in his son’s life unless he would also be in the mother’s life. Pope knew that when he went back to Judy, it would mean he would never know his son. He ran away from his responsibility, but was grateful to be rid of it.

Veronica and Nick stand at the front desk of a records office. They urge a bitter clerk to let them see the original tape of the murder. She refuses. Veronica and Nick beg to see it, they’ll do whatever it takes to see that tape. The clerk furrows her brows and asks for the docket number. The clerk asks for the docket number from Veronica. The clerk sighs. “Come with me,” she says. They follow her to a small back room. The shelves and floor of the archive room are littered with soaked files, destroyed boxes and ruined papers. “Last night, pipe burst right upstairs. Flooded the place. Files from over a hundred cases, pretty much lost all of ‘em. Including yours.” Veronica finds it strange that the only room that flooded was that evidence room. The clerk responds that it was some kind of freak accident.

Sucre checks his watch, the doors slide open for the inmate count. Michael is not in the cell.

Michael works his way through the service corridors again and back up to the roof. He moves quickly up the side of the roof and barely avoids a roaming search light. He checks his watch. Count has started.

Bellick reads of the names on his check list. “Scofield, Sucre.” He walks up to the cell, and Sucre is standing alone. Bellick enters and briefly looks over the cell, but Michael is nowhere to be found. Bellick stares down Sucre, and then calls out to the floor, “We got a runner!”

The alarms sound and the flood lights lining the yard come to life. Guards swarm the cell block searching for Michael. Bellick presses Sucre for more information, to no avail. Patterson radios Bellick from Pope’s office, “ Call it off, Captain. I got Scofield right in here.” Bellick barks at Patterson to visually confirm Michael’s location. Patterson opens the door to Pope’s office, and finds the room empty. Patterson presses the button on the walkie-talke. “Captain, he’s gone.”

Michael crouches on the roof, watching the action unfold. Police squad cars race towards the prison. A line of cars race down both Percy Avenue and English Street. Then Michael turns around to face a third street. This street remains dark and quiet. Fitz Street. Michael smiles.

Pope rushes back into his office, demanding to know how an inmate vanished with a guard right outside. Bellick storms behind him. Michael’s head pokes out from behind the model of the Taj. “What’s going on?” Bellick charges Michael, grabbing him and throwing him against a wall. “What were you doing in here!?” Pope calls Bellick off, asking Michael, “You were in here the whole time?” Becky tells Pope she never Michael him leave and Patterson admits he must not have seen him behind the table. Bellick is furious at the notion that Michael may not be punished for missing count, but Pope wearily interjects that Michael is no longer Fox River’s problem. “ There was...an error in his paperwork. Looks like his transfer will be going through after all. ” Michael is crushed and tries to plead with the warden, but Bellick forces him out.

“Any chance you wanna write it off as a coincidence?” Nick asks Veronica as they walk back into her apartment building. Assuming someone was behind the sabotaging of the evidence tape, Veronica asks how anyone could have known they’d be coming for it even before they did. Nick figures it’s a good sign. When people start breaking the law, that means you’re on to something. They reach Veronica’s apartment and see the door is open. Nick enters slowly, Veronica right behind. Everything is intact, nothing appears to be stolen. Veronica notices the cabinet in the kitchen was left open and she frantically tears through a pile of towels and napkins. Their copy of the tape is gone. Someone stole it. Nick asks if she’s sure that’s where she left it. Veronica replies, “Yes. You were here…” She stops herself and gives Nick a suspicious glance.

The next day, cell doors open in gen pop for inmates to go to breakfast. Bellick swaggers up to Michael and Sucre’s cell, instructing Michael to wait in his cell until his ride comes. Sucre hops of his bunk, “It can’t end like this.” Bellick hollers for Sucre to clear out, but Sucre lingers. “Fitz. We were going take Fitz,” Michael says quietly. “And the cops? How long it takes them to respond? You got all the timing down?” Sucre asks. Michael nods. “Think we would’ve made it?” Sucre asks, but before he can answer, Bellick pulls him out. Michael the allen wrench. Before getting up to leave, he slips it under Sucre’s pillow and places an origami swan on his bunk.

Bellick walks a heavily shackled Michael down an outside corridor. Sara watches from the infirmary as he passes. Then they take a long walk past the yard, the eyes of all inmates following Michael’s departure. Westmoreland holds Marilyn. Sucre hangs on the fence. Abruzzi leans over and whispers to Gus, “ Call my wife. Tell her to get the kids. Tell her to get out of the country.” Bellick and Michael stop just long enough for Lincoln and Michael to hold a glance between them. Lincoln stands and Michael mouths, “I’m sorry,” to him. Pope watches from his office, he sits back in his chair as Michael shuffles out of the prison and out of his life.

Bellick hands Michael over to another C.O. who will escort Michael to the bus. As the gates of the prison sally port open, Pope barks out, “ What’s this prisoner doing out of his cell?” After the guard says he’s being transferred, Pope steps in. ”No, this must be some kind of a mistake. This prisoner filed a motion yesterday. He has a medical condition that precludes transfer. Sinusitis, isn’t it?” A quick but knowing look passes between Pope and Michael. Pope demands Michael be taken back and his recreational time taken away for missing prisoner count. Pope looks beyond the gates, Hale and Kellerman wait in their car.

When Pope returns home, he finds Judy waiting for him on their porch. Judy asks why he’s home early and if everything is okay. Pope sits down next to his wife and uncomfortably replies, “There’s someone I need to tell you about.”

Kellerman makes the unpleasant call to the Garlic Cutter. “The transfer didn’t go through. ” The Garlic Cutter has had it. She recommends a change of plans. Kellerman and Hale need to go after the cause of all of this, Lincoln. “After all,” she says, “the chair isn’t the only way to take a man’s life in prison.”




Prison Break
Episode 106 - "Riots, Drills and The Devil" Part 1 of 2
Airdate: 09/26/2005

The rides and attractions at Chicago’s Navy Pier glisten in the afternoon sun. An unassuming middle-aged man turns from a ticket booth to pass a handful of tickets to a group of eager kids. The man reaches out and kisses one of the boys with a fatherly smile, watching the kids run off. When he turns back, he freezes at the sight of Kellerman and Hale. Kellerman addresses the man as Diamond, whose face grows serious. He and the agents have a history. Diamond makes it clear that whatever the agents want, he wants no part of it. He’s been out of the life for years. Kellerman smirks as he takes a bite of ice cream. “ I know. Problem is, Diamond, no one’s gonna believe that after I take the heroin I have in my pocket and put it in the glove box of your reasonably priced minivan parked over there. I will cuff you and drag you right out of here, in front of everyone. ” Diamond relents, resentfully demanding to know what they need.

That night, alone in her apartment, Veronica reviews paperwork from Lincoln’s case. In the background, the President of the United States delivers a televised speech, discussing alternative fuels. “ What America needs is an environmentally friendly, logistically feasible, and economically responsible alternative fuel source.” Her phone rings, but she lets the answering machine get it. Wendy, her assistant, begins to leave a message that Nick Savrinn has been calling the office obsessively. Veronica picks up, instructing Wendy to tell him that she’s not there, should he come by the office.

Sucre perches on the top bunk acting as lookout over the cell block, while Michael grinds the other end of the bleacher bolt against the steel bunk frame. He holds the piece up to examine it; it’s a very crude drill bit. Michael then performs his routine of removing the toilet from the wall and makes his way into the catwalks behind the cells.

Deep in the prison bowels, Michael comes to a dead end. He is dwarfed by a massive cement wall, but seems unsurprised by its presence. He sets to work, positioning himself in the corner of the room and taking four steps forward along the barrier wall. He turns ninety degrees, and then steps forward three more paces. He removes the drill bit from his pocket and marks the floor. Michael slides over to a yellow scaffolding beam while he lifts up his left sleeve. He uses a tattoo marking on his upper arm to measure a point on the scaffolding, then he uses the bit to mark the point. Finally, he finds a tripod used to hold work lamps and places it above the mark on the floor.

C.O. Patterson calls out, “Bed check!” to the cell block. Sucre jumps off the top bunk and taps a small mirror against the toilet to signal Michael to return immediately. Sucre hurriedly stuffs pillows under Michael’s blanket in an attempt to give the appearance that he’s there.

Veronica heads out of her apartment and she’s startled when Nick walks up behind her. Nick wants to know why she’s avoiding him. Veronica makes it clear that she doesn’t want Nick’s help with Lincoln’s case anymore. She firmly tells him to leave her alone, but Nick persists. He is insulted by her suspicions that he stole the surveillance tape. She storms out the front door and Nick follows. She enlists the help of building handyman Lucasz, who walks her back inside after telling Nick to beat it.

C.O. Patterson conducts his rounds. He shines his flashlight into Sucre and Michael’s cell, his eye on Michael’s bunk. “Show some skin, Scofield,” he orders. There’s no movement from the bottom bunk. Patterson raps his flashlight on the bars and when there’s still no movement from Michael’s bunk, he goes for his keys to open the door. Finally, Michael pushes the covers back, squinting into the flashlight beam. “Tryin’ to sleep, boss.” Patterson continues down the row.

As soon as Patterson is gone, Michael whispers to Sucre, “I can’t get through the wall, Sucre. I know how to do it. I just don’t have the time to do it.” Michael explains that he based the plan on a schedule, but now he’s behind. Since he constantly needs to be back in his bunk for count, he can’t catch up. If Michael’s not through the wall by the end the next day, the plan will be in serious jeopardy. Sucre tells him that the only time when count is not performed is during a lockdown. If they can rile up the inmates enough to cause a lockdown, Michael will have all the time they need. But how to do it? It has been unseasonably warm this spring and if Michael can disable the air conditioning unit, that might be enough to aggravate the prisoners.

The next day in the yard, an inmate huddles close to the phone. The only part of his body that’s visible is his wrist, which sports a green string bracelet. He’s speaking with Diamond who instructs him on what he wants done. “For you Diamond, anything,” the inmate says as he looks across the yard and sees guards escorting Lincoln across the yard. “Lincoln Burrows is as good as dead.”

Across the yard, Sara shouts to Michael from the other side of the fence. “Hottest April on record.” Michael approaches the fence and Sara asks why he never mentioned that Lincoln was his brother. Sara suspects that it’s because her father is the governor of Illinois. Everyone knows that he has the power to grant clemency to any prisoner on death row, yet he never does. Michael reveals that his father was an abusive drunk who left his family, so he is not in the habit of judging anyone by their father’s actions or inactions. Sara offers to schedule Lincoln’s weekly check-ups to end before Michael comes in for his insulin. That way he could see his brother, even if it was just in passing. Touched, Michael thanks her.

Michael walks away from the fence and sits down next to an inmate, who looks around to ensure that they’re alone before saying, “Greetings from the kitchen, Fish.” The inmate passes an egg beater to Michael, who quickly conceals it in his pant leg.

Now recovered from the beating he took from Abruzzi’s gang, T-Bag is escorted back to gen pop by C.O. Geary. A few inmates, including Trokey, applaud his return. Trokey and the boys giggle perversely as Trokey announces that they got him a get well present. T-Bag walks into his cell to find a nervous young kid, Seth, waiting there. T-Bag beams, “It’s just the right size.” Seth is new in Fox River, but knows enough to fear T-Bag. He keeps his eyes on the floor as T-Bag approaches him. “You probably heard stories about me. They’re not all true. What do you say we go for a walk?” T-Bag turns out his left pocket, inviting Seth to take it.

Deep in the catwalks, Michael scales a set of pipes and moves upward until he reaches the air conditioning system. Using a small piece of metal he grabbed in the catwalks, he shorts out the fans.

Outside the attorney-client visitation room, C.O. Bob finishes searching Veronica’s bag and tells her that her co-council is already with Lincoln. Veronica looks confused, then races in to discover Nick alone with Lincoln. She’s furious that Nick would show up there and instructs Lincoln not to talk to him. But Lincoln asks her to hear Nick out. Veronica casts a suspicious glance. Nick tells her, “I’ve been going over the incident report from the night of murder and somebody made an anonymous phone call to the local cops claiming to see Lincoln running away from the garage with bloody pants.” Veronica knows this already. That call was what prompted the police to storm Lincoln’s apartment, where they found him with the bloody pants, the pants they believe were planted. She’s not willing to hear more from Nick. The call was from an anonymous source. They can’t cross-examine a witness if you don’t know who it is. Nick stops her. They might not know who the caller was, but with the help of one of his connections, they have discovered where the caller was. Whoever made that phone call could not have seen Lincoln running away from the garage that night. Veronica asks how Nick knows. Lincoln smiles slightly as Nick replies, “Because the phone call came from Washington, D.C.”

With the A.C. unit now disabled, the temperature in Fox River has the inmates restless and irritable. Michael sits and quietly traces a piece of his tattoo, the face of a devil, onto a piece of paper taped to his arm. Sucre looks around and sees Seth in T-Bag’s cell, cupping pretzel nuggets in his hand. T-Bag has made him into his personal snack tray. He’s also given Seth a new name. When Seth complains about the heat, T-Bag replies, “I say you could talk, Cherry? You’ll know when I want you to open your mouth.” T-Bag stands up and shouts to C.O. Geary about the heat, but Geary is unsympathetic to T-Bag’s concerns.

The doors open for count and all the inmates walk out. T-Bag takes a step forward as Geary walks by and asks him, “Why don’t you transfer us somewhere cooler? Like Africa?” Laughter and rumblings from the other inmates echo T-Bag’s sentiments about the heat. Geary orders T-Bag back on the line, but in this heat, no one is interested in following orders. Another C.O., Mack, senses trouble brewing and radios Bellick.

Bellick, in sick bay, accuses Mack of being soft on the cons and tells Mack that if he can’t deal with the problem himself, “Don’t bother cashing your paycheck this week.” Sara walks down the hall, but Bellick stops her, wondering what she’s doing outside of the infirmary. She tells him that she’s responding to a report that an inmate has heat exhaustion. Bellick thinks the inmate is just being difficult and he encourages her to stay in her wing where it’s safer for her. Sara stands up to Bellick, offering a subtly veiled threat to his job security should he ever deprive an inmate medical care. Bellick backs off and lets Sara get to work.

The inmates are getting more fired up as T-Bag continues to verbally abuse the guards. Finally, Geary has had enough and throws his cup of water in T-Bag’s face. Geary orders a lockdown, but several of the inmates refuse to return to their cells.

Having gotten the lockdown they wished for, Sucre and Michael move back into their cell. Michael tells Sucre to hang a sheet on the bars; they’re both going behind the walls.

Though most of the inmates comply with the lockdown, some stay out of their cells. The guards back out of the cell block and lock the gate behind them. T-Bag leads a pack of cons to the caged guard booth, out for blood after Geary disrespected him with the water. Bellick arrives, demanding to know what’s going on. T-Bag taunts Bellick as his posse claws at the guard cage. “What do you call a piece of white trash who couldn’t pass the cop’s exam and now makes less than a mailman? A C.O.” Bellick fires back, “You know Teddy, you really let me down and that’s hard to do. Because I don’t expect much from the inbred child of a retard. That’s right. I read the psych records. ” Bellick has hit a nerve. T-Bag explodes and the inmates go crazy behind him. Mack asks what they should do. Bellick says, “It’s hotter than hell. They’ll wear themselves out eventually.”

Back in the attorney-client visitation room, Lincoln is livid that evidence of a fake phone call isn’t enough for a stay of execution. Nick and Veronica explain that the evidence on which he was convicted is still too great. But the phone call is a start, and Nick tells Veronica that they need to catch the next flight to Washington, D.C.. They’ve got to find that telephone.

Bellick has lost his cocky grin as the inmates crawl all over the guard booth’s protective wire barrier. As the mesh begins to shake loose in one corner, Bellick instructs his men to relocate to his office, much to T-Bag’s glee.

Moving through the catwalks, Sucre and Michael can hear the chaos erupting above them in the cell block. They continue.

Watching from the security monitors on his desk, Bellick seethes as the inmates finally get through the window and storm the guard booth. Bellick removes a case from his desk drawer and loads a 9mm handgun that was inside. They watch as the inmates work the cell door controls to free the rest of general population. T-Bag’s foot steps on a set of keys. Bellick whirls around and Mack sheepishly admits that he lost them in the commotion. T-Bag smiles as he waves the keys at the camera. Bellick radios the other guards, “This is Bellick. Our wing has been breached. I want A-Wing evacuated and shut down. All access to B-Wing cut off now.”

Sara continues her rounds in the Sick Bay of B-Wing. The inmates are subdued until C.O. Rizzo receives news of the uprising in gen pop over his walkie-talkie. Sara looks concerned as the inmates around her start getting excited.

Sucre and Michael reach the wall that Michael had prepped earlier. Michael explains its significance. “Somewhere on the other side of this wall is the main drainage pipe to the prison’s old sewer system. If we can get through this wall, we can get into the pipe. If we can get into the pipe, we can get into the infirmary. And if we can get to the infirmary, then we can get out of here.”

C.O. Bob interrupts Lincoln, Veronica and Nick’s meeting. He informs them that there’s a disturbance in A-Wing. All visitors must leave immediately. Veronica resists at first, but Bob assures her that it’s for her own safety. Lincoln urges Veronica to go to Washington D.C. with Nick. Following up on that call is all they have to work with.

C.O. Bob escorts Lincoln back to his cell. Lincoln, concerned for Michael’s safety, asks what’s really going on in A-Wing. Bob is reluctant to say more, but he’s a good guy and he and Lincoln have a rapport. Bob assures him that no one is going anywhere; the cell block is locked down. Bob barely finishes his sentence before T-Bag runs into the hallway followed by a group of his thugs. T-Bag fixes a predatory stare on Bob who freezes with fear. “A rookie C.O.. And it isn’t even Christmas.” Lincoln assumes a protective stance. Knowing that the only way to save Bob is to fight, Lincoln takes Bob’s keys and unlocks his own handcuffs. “Get out of here T-Bag,” Lincoln warns, but T-Bag is adamant about getting his hands on Bob. T-Bag offers Lincoln a bribe to hand Bob over, but Lincoln refuses. As additional thugs circle around T-Bag, he menacingly tells Lincoln, “You’ve got a lot to learn about the art of bargaining position. Lesson one: Yours just changed.”

Using his carefully measured markings as a guide, Michael plugs in a work lamp and hangs it from the tripod he set up earlier. Sucre wants to know the exact location of the pipe. Michael tells him, “We’ve got someone to show us where it is.” Then he takes the tracing of the devil tattoo, places it before the lamp and the image projects onto the wall.

As Sara walks into her office within sick bay, C.O. Rizzo radios and asks if A-Wing needs back up. His offer denied, he turns around and a massive inmate, Stroker, grabs him by the throat. Sara, medical tray in hand, walks out of her office and sees Rizzo on the ground. Before she can react, Stroker grabs her around the neck and chokes her. She grabs a syringe from her tray and stabs him in the arm. Stroker lets go just long enough for Sara to break free and lock herself in her office. Sara looks out. All her patients close in around the glass-lined office. The inmates are now surrounding the office, threatening to break in. Sara tries to telephone for help, but another inmate, Pop Pop, has pulled the wire from the wall.

T-Bag slowly walks closer towards Lincoln. “You ever see on of those safari shows where a bunch of cheetahs just jump all up on an antelope? Guess which one you are?” Lincoln strikes first, head butting one of the goons. A few thugs grab Bob and pin him against a wall, while the rest struggle to take down Lincoln. But Lincoln will not go down easily. He dispatches thug after thug before T-Bag sneaks behind him and strikes Lincoln on the back of the head with a metal bar, knocking him unconscious.

Sucre studies the projected image of the devil, increasingly skeptical of Michael’s plan. The devil may have a lot of power, but unless he has a sledgehammer, Sucre doubts he can help them get through the wall. Michael answers by passing him the egg beater, now fashioned into a crude drill. “What the hell am I supposed to do with this?” Sucre asks.

The sick bay inmates have handcuffed a bloody Rizzo to a pipe while they run wild through the room. Another guard radios Rizzo for a status check, but Stroker points a shard of glass at Rizzo’s throat, forcing him to give an all-clear status. Sara remains locked in her office, terror mounting on her face.

Sucre examines the egg beater and doesn’t understand how, exactly, they’re supposed to get through a six-inch concrete wall by making a series of small holes. Michael explains, “ We go through the tip of each horn. The eyes. End of the nose. Bottom of the fangs. Ends of the braids. It makes a kind of X,” and when that’s done, they will have weakened the structural integrity of the wall enough to hammer their way through.

The prison guards are gearing up for the riot. They grab helmets, body armor, and heavy firepower. Bellick marches across the yard with Warden Pope. Bellick tells Pope he wants to attack the inmates head on and regain footing inside the cell blocks, but Pope disagrees. “Oh yeah, so we can end the riot today and start the funerals tomorrow?” Mack rushes over to Pope, cell phone in hand. The governor has called to find out if his daughter is safe. Pope assures Governor Tancredi, “ It’s impossible for anyone from A-Wing to get to Sick Bay. And the guard on duty has assured us everything is fine. We have everything under control, Governor.”

Everything is not under control. Sara flinches as the inmates chip away at the glass around her office. One inmate slams an IV stand against the reinforced glass, taunting her as it slowly cracks.

Michael completes drilling the first hole and tries to hand the drill off to Sucre for the next shift. Sucre won’t take part. He believes that drilling holes in the face of the devil is bad luck. Michael reminds him that he believes in God and God will be his protector. Sucre reluctantly takes the egg beater and begins to drill.

T-Bag returns to gen pop, dragging the beaten and bloodied C.O. Bob behind him. T-Bag assures a cheering audience of inmates that “as soon as Bob and I are finished getting acquainted, everyone else will get their turn.” Bob breaks free and tries to crawl away, but T-Bag catches him easily. With his last ounce of strength, Bob kicks T-Bag. Bob’s futile attempt to fight only agitates T-Bag further. He sits on Bob’s stomach and beats him senseless.

Sucre questions how Michael knows where the drainage pipe is behind the wall. Michael tells him that he hid the coordinates for the projection in his tattoo using simple math. If he’s wrong, Sucre will drill into one of several gas pipes behind the wall, killing them instantly. Sucre turns around. “But you’re good at math, right?”

T-Bag tosses Bob into Michael’s cell. Bob falls to the ground. When he tries to regain his footing, T-Bag kicks him forward and Bob slams against the loose toilet fixture and pulls it down with him.

The noise of Bob hitting the toilet echoes through the inner chamber of the prison. Sucre and Michael share a look.

T-Bag slowly inspects the hole in the wall. “They’re breakin’ out,” he whispers. He turns to alert the rioting inmates, but before he can, Abruzzi grabs him and puts a finger to his mouth.

The inmates in Sick Bay are determined to break through the glass wall to Sara. She frantically searches the office for a weapon to defend herself with. Pop Pop manages to finally get his arm through the glass. As he struggles to reach the door lock, Sara sticks him with a syringe filled with a sedative which knocks Pop Pop to the floor. Another inmate immediately continues to pound the glass with a fire extinguisher. Sara grabs a hole-punch and smashes the glass of a nearby cabinet.

Pope orders the water shut off inside the prison. When Bellick tells Pope that he’ll call maintenance, Pope redirects the order. “Mack, you take care of it.”

As he climbs back through the hole to his cell, Michael pauses at an unexpected sight. Bob is restrained on Michael’s bunk, dazed and beaten, but conscious. Abruzzi and T-Bag stand nearby. “We have a problem,” Abruzzi announces. “Bob here has seen the hole and he needs to go away,” T-Bag chimes in. None of this is in Michael’s plan. He takes a moment to collect his thoughts, then announces, firstly, no one is going to kill Bob; he is their only leverage. This decision infuriates T-Bag. “See, Bob here knows about our secret, he knows about OUR escape. So it’s all of our concern now, isn’t it?”

In the stairwell where T-Bag left him, Lincoln lies face down in a pool of blood, unconscious. Westmoreland comes upon Lincoln and slowly rolls him over to check if he’s all right. Lincoln awakens and Westmoreland informs him of Bob’s fate, but Lincoln wants to know where Michael is. Westmoreland tells him that he hasn’t seen him since the riot started. Another inmate, Turk, overhears their conversation as he walks in. “You lookin’ for Scofield? Come on.” Lincoln, still disoriented, follows Turk down a flight of steps.

Abruzzi grabs T-Bag and shoves him against the railing on the tier outside of Michael’s cell. “You’re in as much trouble as he is,” Abruzzi warns. T-Bag tells Michael and Abruzzi that even if they try and kill him, he’ll scream about the hole. “So you see friends, either I’m through that hole with you, or I’m gonna sing like Johnny Cash.”

Determined to defend herself, Sara takes off her lab coat and wraps it around the biggest piece of glass she can find. She’s huddled in a corner, prepared for the worst.

Michael walks back down to the floor, and one inmate calls out that the prisoners in Sick Bay are about to get to Sara. Michael rushes to the monitor in time to see Sara crouching behind a metal desk clutching her homemade weapon. Michael rushes back to his cell.

“ Sucre, I need you to finish what we started,” Michael says as he climbs into the hole. He’s going into B-Wing through the walls to help Sara. “And no one touches the C.O.,” Michael warns as he vanishes inside.

Lincoln continues following Turk, who insists he knows a shortcut. As they enter a dark room, Turk’s green string bracelet is visible.

Michael climbs through the catwalks again and rushes up to the roof. He can see Sara beating on the sealed window of her medical office. Her eyes are frantic as the inmates are about to break through…

…to be continued.




Prison Break
Episode 107 - "Riots, Drills and The Devil" Part 2 of 2
Airdate: 10/03/2005

Tensions run high as chaos continues to erupt behind the walls of Fox River. Military choppers circle the yard as reinforcements on the ground secure the perimeter. On the roof, overlooking the activity, Michael crouches behind an exhaust vent to stay hidden from the helicopter. When it passes, he deftly removes the vent’s protective grating and crawls inside.

As National Guard soldiers coordinate behind them, Pope and Bellick walk to the command center. With the water shut off, Pope expects that unbearable heat within the prison will be enough to force the inmates to stand down. Bellick, however, chomps at the bit to march a group of armed guards in and take A-Wing back by force. But Pope is firm; they’ve got to follow procedure by the book. Pope and Bellick stop their conversation when a shout from the prison catches their attention.

The shouter is Gus, one of Abruzzi’s men. He informs Pope that the inmates “got some demands.” Yelling through a slotted window of the cellblock, Gus repeats the demands fed to him by Abruzzi. “We need the A/C! And we got a hostage! The new jack!” Bellick sends Mack off to find out which C.O. is trapped inside. Bellick quickly reports back to Pope that Bob is trapped inside. Gus continues, “And we got the girl doctor!” The gravity of the situation sinks in for Pope; the governor’s daughter is a hostage in his prison. Pope changes his tack; they must send someone in to retrieve Sara. Bellick evenly replies, “Can’t do that sir. It wouldn’t be by the book.”

Sara screams and pounds against the thick prison glass desperate for someone to hear her, but her voice is muffled by the thick security glass.

Turk continues to lead Lincoln through the back halls of the prison along his supposed “short cut.” When Turk disappears, Lincoln casts a confused look at his surroundings. He’s been led into the tight maze of pipes that make up the prison steam room. Suddenly, Turk ambushes Lincoln from above. He drops down from a steam tower and chokes Lincoln with razor wire. After a prolonged struggle, Lincoln wrestles free of Turk’s choke, and stumbles away dazed and bleeding.

Inmates continue to riot in the cell block. C.O. Bob remains cuffed to Michael’s bunk while Sucre prepares to head back into the prison bowels. Eyeing Bob, T-Bag removes Bob’s boots and belt. Sucre issues another warning to T-Bag about leaving Bob alive before he crawls back into the hole. Bob begs Sucre to stay, but he has to finish drilling. T-Bag, showing his new-found team spirit, holds the sheet across the bars to cover for Sucre. Once Sucre’s through, T-Bag orders Bob to set the toilet back upright.

Michael moves through the ducts above the ceiling, crawling along on his belly, and peering below him through the air vent system. The sounds from the infirmary grow louder.

On a flight destined to Washington, D.C., Nick and Veronica struggle with the mystery surrounding Terrence Steadman’s death. They speculate as to who in Washington would have wanted him dead. “You know, before Steadman was killed, EcoField introduced a prototype electric engine at a techno conference. Sixty dollar barrels of oil would be obsolete if this thing ever made it to the mainstream,” Veronica says. Oil producers, suppliers, even the government of an oil-based economy (such as the United States) would have wanted Steadman’s plans to be stopped.

Sara is crouched behind an examining table, her makeshift shiv in hand. Her eyes dart about to the dozen or so inmates who are trying to break in and get her. She springs up to the window again, screaming for help in vain.

Michael slides along in the ducts, closing in on Sara’s position. He reaches another grate that allows him to shimmy across a pipe on the ceiling.

T-Bag sits across from Bob, now tied to the metal frame of the bunk bed. He goes through Bob’s wallet and finds a prom photo of Bob’s daughter. Bob tells T-Bag to put it back, but T-Bag delights in tormenting Bob with the picture. “You know what they say about a prom dress?” He is interrupted by a furious Abruzzi who seethes with hatred for T-Bag as he orders him to leave Bob alone. Bob’s the only leverage they have and is not to be harmed. T-Bag acquiesces, reiterating his team-first mentality, but Abruzzi’s interest has drifted to the toilet. He peeks behind it, glimpsing his very first step to freedom.

Pop Pop awakens from the sedative Sara drugged him with earlier. He finds a phone book and shouts to the other inmates to smoke Sara out of the office.

Michael peeks under a ceiling tile to witness the inmates throwing a flaming phone book into Sara’s office. Sara must move closer to the door to extinguish the flames, and when she does Stroker grabs her hair. Sara screams as he pulls her towards him with a sadistic smile. Sara stabs Stroker’s hand with the shard of glass she’s been clutching. She runs towards the center of the room and is grabbed again by another hand, this one emerging from the ceiling. She looks up to see Michael, who pulls her up to the crawl space above the office. “It’s okay, I’m not going to hurt you,” he tells her.

A limousine surrounded by a convoy of squad cars and SUVs race into the prison yard. Pope and Bellick watch the approaching motorcade with apprehension; the Governor has arrived. His limo pulls up next to Pope’s command tent. Pope moves to greet him, instructing Bellick to keep his mouth shut. Governor Tancredi doesn’t want to hear anything from Pope; he only wants to see his daughter.

Safe for the moment in the B-Wing crawl space, Michael tells Sara the plan. “See these pipes? We’re going to stay on them. They go through the wall and over the hallway, and they’re going to get us out of here. All you have to do is follow me.” Sara, still scared, follows Michael.

The smoke from the flaming phone book clears enough for the inmates to see that Sara is no longer in the office. Stroker’s eyes drift to the ceiling; he knows there was only one way out of that room.

In Dulles airport, Nick and Veronica disembark and head to their meeting with Nick’s contact who traced the “eyewitness” call. Veronica interrupts him as they pass a television in the terminal. A news story runs about the Fox River riot.

LJ , glued to the television, watches the same news report back in Illinois. His mother, Lisa, takes a momentary interest in the story, and then sees that LJ’s step-father, Adrian, is getting annoyed. Lisa turns off the television, but LJ protests; he wants to watch in case his father is in trouble. “Look, your father’s already in trouble, there’s nothing we can do about it,” she says and LJ sits, stunned. Lisa doesn’t want to make a scene in front of Adrian; the situation with Lincoln makes him uncomfortable enough as it is. LJ talks back to his mother, then Adrian steps in to discipline LJ. The situation quickly intensifies and ends with Adrian shoving LJ to the floor. LJ storms to his room.

Turk has reset his sights on Lincoln. He hides in the catwalks with a three foot piece of pipe in his hands. He watches Lincoln stumble through the steam. Turk attempts another ambush, but Lincoln reacts quickly this time. “Why?” Lincoln demands. Turk swings the pipe at Lincoln, but loses his footing near the edge of the platform and falls twenty feet, landing on his back on the concrete floor below. Lincoln kneels over him, demanding to know who sent him. Turk sputters for his last breath, dying without telling Lincoln the name of his assassins.

Sucre continues drilling into the wall, praying in Spanish as he goes. The drill bit breaks through the wall and he smiles. “Who’s your friend?” Unexpectedly, Abruzzi’s profile appears on the wall. Sucre whirls around to discover that Abruzzi has found his way into the prison bowels. Sucre explains how he intends to bring down the wall. Abruzzi nods his head, but warns, “Sometimes you underestimate the wall. No matter how hard you try, it doesn’t give in.”

Michael and Sara crawl silently through the ceiling rafters. Michael moves with confidence, but Sara, shaky and exhausted from the strain of her ordeal, stops. “I need a minute, I’m sorry,” she says. Below, Pop Pop and the rest of the sick bay inmates wheel Stroker down the hall in an office chair. Stroker stands on the chair, poking the ceiling tiles with a mop handle as he goes.

Michael sees that the shock of events has Sara on a precarious edge. He tries to calm her down by distracting her with stories about Baja and Thailand. Though grateful for his efforts, Sara can’t stop herself from asking, “Why are you here?” Michael explains, “When everything went off in A-wing, the C.O.s left the station and I saw you on the monitor. One of the first assignments on P.I., we were up here to clean out toxic mold. Took days, so, I’m kinda familiar with the layout.” Sara, still dazed, accepts his explanation and follows him onward. Below them, the inmates are getting closer. Michael hears them and immediately becomes silent.

The other inmates hold Pop Pop high enough that he can look around above the ceiling. The back of his head pops up just in front of Michael and Sara. As Pop Pop turns around, Michael kicks him in the face, knocking him down onto his fellow inmates who land in a heap in the hallway as Sara and Michael run to safety.

Governor Tancredi has lost all patience with Pope and his handling of the riot. Pope defends himself, explaining that he’s trying to settle this riot through standard negotiating procedures to avoid taking lives. Tancredi’s only priority is his daughter, trapped in the anarchy. He announces, ”I don’t care if it takes a massacre to get her out of there. If you’re not gonna do it, I am.” He tells a National Guard Captain to ready his men to go in.

Michael and Sara arrive at a vent where they look out onto an anteroom that Pop Pop and Stroker have just passed. When the room is clear, Michael climbs down and helps Sara. She jumps down and Michael steadies her, grabbing her waist. Neither of them acknowledges the blurring of the doctor/patient relationship that’s occurring. But before they can leave, Stroker finds them. Stroker makes a move to grab Sara. Michael jumps on his back, wrapping his arms around Stroker’s neck. Stroker starts to pass out as Pop Pop charges in and grabs Michael. Sara kicks Pop Pop’s post-op knee and he falls to the ground, screaming in pain. Once Michael’s choke hold brings Stroker to the ground, Michael and Sara run for it.

Bellick watches snipers line the prison roof with satisfaction. Seeing Governor Tancredi alone, Bellick approaches him with words of praise. “Good call, Governor. Bringing out the big guns.” Bellick introduces himself to the Governor and takes the opportunity to express his views on the situation. According to Bellick, C.O.s need to be tough. Force has to be used to control the inmates. Governor Tancredi nods, though it’s unclear how seriously he takes Bellick’s comments. Bellick moves on, but not before his little sidebar catches Pope’s eye.

Abruzzi takes the egg beater from Sucre, insisting that “demolition runs in the family.” Sucre warns Abruzzi about the gas pipes behind the wall. Abruzzi looks concerned, but before he can drill, the devil light burns out.

Michael and Sara reach the hallway that leads to the outside door, but a group of inmates stand in their way. Michael and Sara duck behind a wall before anyone sees them. When Michael wants to go another direction, Sara argues that it’s impossible to get out that way. Michael insists. Sara cannot grasp how an inmate can know the layout of these restricted areas. Michael says, “Trust me.” He leads her back out the way they came in.

Abruzzi is soaked with sweat as he continues to drill in the dark.

T-Bag continues to verbally torment C.O. Bob, saying that once he breaks out of prison, he’s going to drive up to Bob’s house in a limousine and he’s going to take his daughter to the prom.

Pope asks the National Guard Captain for a status on Sara’s location. The Captain says they are working on it, as the Governor walks up behind them. “You should listen to Captain Bellick and gas the whole block.” Pope turns to the Governor, stunned at Bellick’s betrayal. He firmly asserts his authority in Fox River; whatever happens in there, Pope will take responsibility for it.

Sara and Michael sprint through the halls.

Abruzzi finishes the last hole and hands Sucre a huge metal pipe. “She’s all yours now.” Sucre takes mighty swings at the wall with concrete breaking away with each swing. The two men peer through the hole in the wall and laugh with delight. Michael’s plan worked.

Michael and Sara make it to the visitation waiting room, they’re one door away from freedom. Sara doesn’t want to leave Michael there, but she doesn’t have a choice. Stroker and Pop Pop are back on their feet and closing in on the waiting room.

From the roof tops, a sniper calls in to his commander, “Number eight, affirmative. I’ve got him in sight.” The red laser from the barrel of his gun flashes across Michael’s chest. Sara sees the red dot. She realizes that if she leaves, they’re going to kill Michael.

With snipers holding Michael in their sights and the mob of inmates closing in, Michael must get Sara out the door for her own safety. “You go out the door, I hit the floor,” he tells her. But Sara knows the sharpshooters will not miss. Michael yells at Sara to go. Stroker runs up behind Michael as he pushes Sara out the door. Michael dives to the ground and the sniper’s bullet strikes Stroker in the head and machine gun fire floods the waiting room. Inmates scatter and Michael is able to crawl away. Outside, armed guards escort Sara away.

A beat up van pulls into a Washington, D.C. parking garage. It parks next to Veronica and Nick’s car. Nick’s contact, Mark Fletcher, steps out and walks over. Mark tells them that it wasn’t easy for him to trace the number because it came from a payphone.

At the intersection of 11th and Constitution, Nick and Veronica survey the buildings around them. One building stands empty, also nearby is the Federal Energy Commission. Nick finds a security guard near the empty building to ask what was there. “Yeah. He said it was regional headquarters for a company called EcoField.” Veronica tells him that was Terrence Steadman’s company. But before they can talk about it, the payphone rings. Veronica answers and the voice at the other end of the line asks, “Is Lincoln Burrows really worth it?” Nick grabs the phone and demands the caller’s name. The voice replies, “Nick Savrinn, as of right now, both of you are dead.” Nick hangs up and the two quickly move away.

Desperate to find his brother amidst the chaos, Lincoln forces his way through A-Wing, screaming Michael’s name. He forces his way into Michael’s cell and grabs T-Bag, seeing that T-Bag was holding Bob prisoner. “Whoa, whoa, whoa. I didn’t touch the man, you can ask him. Things have changed since we last met,” T-Bag frantically explains. Lincoln watches Sucre climb out of the hole, followed by Abruzzi. Lincoln grabs Sucre and throws him out onto the tier. Lincoln is furious that T-Bag knows about the escape. Sucre concedes that T-Bag is a problem. Lincoln demands to know where Michael is. Sucre doesn’t know, so Lincoln forces his way back through the rioting inmates.

Michael re-enters A-Wing as inmates begin to scatter. A group of armed guards have arrived and are waiting outside the gate. Lincoln grabs Michael and hugs him, both relieved to find the other alive. They run back up to the cell.

Pope walks across the yard to Bellick. Bellick snidely cracks an insensitive joke about Sara’s safe return, but Pope shuts him down with a harsh reprimand. “The next time you badmouth me to one of my superiors, there are going to be serious consequences. Do I make myself clear, Captain?” Bellick, smile wiped from his face, nods his head.

Governor Tancredi spots Sara as National Guard soldiers escort her to the medic station. Sara and her father embrace, but instead of being grateful that she’s alive, he begins to lecture her about her decision to work at Fox River. “I told you when you took this job. I knew something like this was gonna happen. I just want you see what you’re doing to yourself. Nobody is forcing you to be here.” Disappointed, Sara nods her head. “I know.” The Governor turns to the crowd and says, “Alright, let’s clean this mess up.”

The guards storm into A-Wing and Michael organizes the guys in the cell. He wants everyone out, especially C.O. Bob. T-Bag volunteers to take Bob out and Michael orders T-Bag not to kill him, but T-Bag can’t accept letting Bob go “after all he’s seen.” Lincoln grabs Bob and drags him out of the cell. As he’s leaving, Abruzzi shows Bob his driver’s license, “If we have a problem, we know where to find you.” T-Bag still wants to go after Bob, but Abruzzi holds T-Bag back. T-Bag ducks inside another cell, hiding as Abruzzi passes. Then, as inmates shove to get through the narrow tier, T-Bag sets his sights on Bob, moving towards him with a vicious purpose. He reaches Bob on the tier. He spins him around and stabs him multiple times before flipping him off the railing. Bob crashes into the concrete floor of the cell block in front of Westmoreland. Michael watches everything unfold, powerless to intervene. He can only lower his head against the cell wall.

Sara recovers in the back of an ambulance going over a list of all injured and dead inmates. Ron, a prison administrative assistant walks by and Sara asks him, “Why did your department assign inmates on P.I. to do a toxic mold removal project?” she asks. Ron doesn’t know anything about it. “We’d never assign inmates to do that.” The first inklings of suspicion crease Sara’s forehead.




Prison Break
Episode 108 - "The Old Head"
Airdate: 10/24/2005

Michael’s voice carries us through the bowels of the prison, into a pipe through which Westmoreland’s cat darts and up to the grassy prison yard where we see the escape team assembled. “ Seventeen days from now, they strap my brother to an electric chair… for a crime he didn't commit. I'm here to make sure that doesn't happen.” Michael , Sucre and Abruzzi sit on the bleachers while Michael details the specifics of the escape plan. “Our cell, over there, that's New York City. And the infirmary, our exit point, that’s California. And the pipes beneath our feet, the ones that connect the two, that's…” Surce speaks up, “Route 66.” Abruzzi wants to how they are going to make their break at night with Lincoln locked in solitary. Michael tells them that they’re going to meet in “St. Louis,” which according to the blueprints is an old storage building that rests right on top of the steam pipes they plan to use in their escape. Michael needs Abruzzi to get them into that storage building on P.I. for the next phase of the plan. Abruzzi tells Michael that P.I. isn’t allowed in that building and they’ll need a reason to be in there. All escape talk immediately ceases when T-Bag walks up and threatens to expose the plan if he’s not included. Before the conversation can continue, Sucre, Abruzzi and Michael file back into the prison. Abruzzi and Sucre both tell Michael that they refuse to include T-Bag, but Michael says not to worry. Having killed Bob during the riot, T-Bag has already sealed his fate.

Shauna Hudson, Officer Bob’s widow, sits in Pope’s office. Pope details the various insurance payouts to which she is entitled. But Shauna doesn’t want compensation; she wants justice. She asks if they know who killed Bob. Pope offers little hope. “We have some leads. I can assure you none of us will rest until we find out what happened.” Shauna looks through Bob’s wallet and finds that a photo of their daughter is missing. Pope looks towards a distraught Bellick, who offers to escort Shauna to her car. Once Shauna is beyond earshot, Pope gives Bellick the order to do whatever he needs to do in order to catch the inmate who killed one of their own.

Back in Chicago after a grueling trip to Washington, D.C., Nick unloads file boxes from the trunk of his car. He assures a frightened and dazed Veronica that the phone call they received on the street corner in Washington was nothing more than a scare-tactic. Lucasz, Veronica’s handyman, sees Nick again and asks if he’s bothering Veronica. She tells him no, and Lucasz offers to help Nick with the boxes. “Those boxes contain seven years of criminal appellate work. If there’s a precedent in there somewhere that can help us suspend Lincoln’s execution...we’re gonna find it,” Nick says as Lucasz pulls the hand truck across the street. Once inside the apartment building, Lucasz unlocks Veronica’s apartment door and opens it. A massive fireball explodes out the front door, destroying Veronica’s apartment.

Michael stands at the fence, looking at the restricted building to which he needs access. Abruzzi approaches with a proposal to solve their problem. They need to burn the place down. Abruzzi explains, “Few years ago, the chapel burned down. DOC realized they had some toxic issues. Asbestos. Contractors wouldn’t touch the place with a ten foot pole. So they put the inmates on it.” The inmates could spend all the time they needed without worry that the guards would interfere. T-Bag walks up behind them, Cherry clutching his pocket. T-Bag smacks Cherry’s hand away and asks Abruzzi if his P.I. card is on its way. T-Bag thinks that Michael and Abruzzi are slow-walking him, believing once Bellick discovers that T-Bag killed Bob, T-Bag will be out of the picture. T-Bag reminds them that if he gets pinched for Bob’s murder, then he’s going to sing about Michael’s plan.

LJ faces Lincoln through the cage in the visitation room. LJ recalls a bittersweet memory from fifth grade, when Lincoln came home to find his glass coffee table broken. LJ denied that he broke it. Lincoln told LJ that he never cared about the table; he just didn’t want LJ lying to him. Lincoln smiles and says he remembers too. LJ returns the smile and admits to breaking the table. LJ tells him that if there’s anything that Lincoln needs to get off his chest, he can. Lincoln intuits that this is LJ’s way of asking about Terrence Steadman. Lincoln admits that he was planning on doing something wrong that night, but he never killed Steadman. Lincoln also tells LJ that Veronica is working hard on the case and there’s a reporter visiting him today who also believes he’s innocent. There’s reason for hope that Lincoln’s execution will be delayed. “You gotta have faith, kid,” Lincoln tells him.

As fire fighters and rescue workers congregate outside Veronica’s apartment, Kellerman and Hale survey the aftermath of the fire. The phone on the dashboard rings; it’s the Garlic Cutter asking for an update. Kellerman assures her that Nick and Veronica are dead. “Good. Now move onto the second thing,” she cryptically says. Hale steps in, “If you could see what we’re looking at…believe me, Burrows is going to get the message.” The Garlic Cutter is not satisfied; she orders them to continue.

Across the cell block, Michael and Sucre watch Bellick tear apart a cell looking for evidence of Bob’s murder. “He’s gonna toss every cell on the block until he finds the killer. He tosses this one, he’s gonna find the hole back there in a heartbeat,” Sucre worries. They look down at T-Bag who also has a watchful eye following the movements of the C.O.s. They know they need to turn him in, but if they do, T-Bag is going to blow everything. Sucre shakes his head. “We’re screwed either way, aren’t we?”

On P.I. detail, Sucre, Lincoln, Michael and Abruzzi carry freshly bundled towels towards the restricted storage room. The men toss the towels on a shelf and Michael quickly turns to a door marked, “NO INMATES BEYOND THIS POINT.” Michael looks around, the coast is clear.

Michael opens the door, and instead of finding an empty storage room, he is face to face with an angry C.O. Stolte who raises his shotgun and barks, “What the hell are you doing here?” Michael replies, “I thought this was storage.” Stolte shouts to them as they back out of the small room, “It look like storage to you, you idiot!?”

Across the yard in the gardening shed, Sucre explodes, “A freakin’ break room? Are you kidding me?” Abruzzi asks Michael if there’s a backup plan and Michael tells him that there isn’t. “It’s the only way out and we gotta get back in there.” At the window, Lincoln looks out at the guard’s room and sees Westmoreland exit with a plastic pan full of dishes. Sucre asks if the guard’s room is so off limits, why is Westmoreland is allowed in? Lincoln explains that he’s earned the title of “trustee” by having a spotless record for almost 30 years. Michael knows the only way to get into the guard’s room is through Westmoreland.

Later, Michael finds Westmoreland in the yard. He asks Westmoreland if he’s had any luck finding Marilyn, who ran away during the start of the riot. “Still MIA,” he tells Michael. Michael finally extends a formal invitation to break out with them. Westmoreland replies, “Cause you still think I’m D.B. Cooper?” Michael sits down next to Westmoreland and lays out some facts. Westmoreland was caught boosting a car in Arizona, ten states away from where he lived, and only ten miles away from the Mexican border. Two days prior to that, someone made a phone call to his wife from a motel in Portland which coincidentally was ten miles from the airport out of which flight 305 was hijacked by the infamous D.B. Cooper. Seven hours after the hijacking, records show Charles Westmoreland was treated for a busted knee at a free clinic in Brigham City, Utah. The only way someone could make it from Portland to Brigham City in that time is in an airplane. Michael adds, it’s public record that DB Cooper jumped out of that 727 about an hour after take off. Jumping from a plane at ten thousand feet with 1.5 million dollars in cash and a hastily packed parachute might lead to a pretty rough landing. Rough enough to shatter some bones and more specifically Westmoreland’s left knee. Michael continues, speculating that D.B. Cooper would have had a car waiting for him when he landed. According to DMV records in 1971, Charles Westmoreland was the owner of a ‘65 Chevy Nova. As it turns out, a ‘65 Chevy Nova with the registration number scraped off was found abandoned with a blown gasket along the Arizona border, only a couple miles from where Westmoreland accidentally hit that woman. Westmoreland nods, acknowledging that while most of Michael’s research might be correct, “how could I have hijacked a plane in Portland on November 24, when I was in Folsom finishing up a thirty day drunk and disorderly? Day that plane was hijacked, I was incarcerated, kid.” Michael sits, stunned at this news.

On the side of a distant rural road, a bruised and bloodied Nick cleans his wounds. Veronica stands overlooking a lake, clearly shaken. Veronica wants to go to the police, but Nick insists what they’re up against is bigger than the police. Going to the police would just signal their location and status to their pursuers. He knows somewhere safe where they can lay low for a few days.

In his cell, Sucre hatches a plan for how to burn down the break room. He tells Michael to take some rubber cement that he’s using to build the Pope’s Taj Mahal and coat the bottom of a coffee pot with it. The rubber cement, when placed on the burner of a coffee maker, it will catch fire. But Michael knows there’s no getting inside without Westmoreland on board and Michael tells Sucre that Westmoreland doesn’t want anything to do with the plan. Sucre replies, “Then what’s he want? He’s gotta want something. Everybody wants something .”

Inside the bowels of the prison, Michael places a can of tuna on the ground in an attempt to lure Marilyn towards him.

Michael crosses the yard towards Westmoreland whose eyes light up when he sees Marilyn tucked inside Michael’s jacket. But Westmoreland immediately suspects that Michael is expecting something in return. Michael explains, “All I need you to do is bring in a certain coffee pot into the guard’s room at a certain time and turn the burner on.” But Westmoreland can’t oblige. He’s gone 32 years without a spot on his record and doesn’t want to do anything to put that clean record in jeopardy.

In the infirmary, Michael gets his shot from Sara. Sensing her tension and discomfort, Michael asks why Sara is at work in the wake of the riots. Sara brushes off his attempt to connect with her, saying only that she couldn’t find a replacement. Michael tells Sara that she shouldn’t feel like she owes him anything, but she disagrees. She is grateful, but she does have one question. How did Michael get to the crawlspace above the Sick Bay? She knows P.I. was never assigned to work there. The smile fades from Michael’s face. Instead of responding Michael snaps, “We’re done here, right?” She asks for answers but Michael walks off.

A smiling reporter for The Headline Press introduces herself as Sue Parsons and sits down with Lincoln inside in visitation. Lincoln appreciates her looking into his case. Sue begins by asking a few basic questions. Her seemingly harmless, genuine demeanor quickly darkens. She remarks in a menacing tone, “You have a son named Lincoln, Jr.?” Lincoln tenses as she continues, “I have a source who tells me if you accept what happened and stop fighting your execution, your son will be left out of this. If not, I hope you said goodbye to him when he left this morning.” Lincoln senses that something is wrong. He jumps to his feet, but Sue continues, “One Burrows is gonna die. Up to you which one.” Lincoln pleads to the C.O.s to stop Sue, but she slips out with a warning glance at Lincoln.

The doorbell of LJ’s suburban house rings and he heads to open it. He looks out the front door. Hale stands on the porch. He introduces himself to LJ as “Officer Hale with Juvenile Court” and explains that he needs to inspect the home to make sure it’s on par with the conditions of his parole. LJ says his parents aren’t home, but they will be soon. Hale nods as he walks inside. Adrian and Lisa enter the back gate of the yard, carrying groceries into the house. Inside, LJ asks to see Hale’s credentials, but when Hale hears LJ’s parents enter the back door, he quickly pulls out a gun with a silencer and points it at LJ. Lisa calls out for LJ and picks up the phone, but Hale puts a finger to his lips, keeping LJ quiet. When Lisa walks through the hallway, she sees LJ scared and Hale in the corner. “Drop the phone lady. This is the only warning I’m giving you.” Hale spins to point the gun at Lisa. LJ throws a bottle and it breaks the glass of a nearby wall hanging. Hale ducks to avoid the shattering glass, giving Lisa and LJ opportunity to scatter. Lisa huddles behind the kitchen counter, still clutching the cordless phone. She dials 911 and waits desperately for an answer. In the basement, LJ knocks out a window and climbs outside. Hale creeps up behind Lisa, gun drawn. As LJ turns to run, Kellerman’s voice halts him. LJ flips open his cell phone and Kellerman assures him that he can fire a bullet before LJ dials two numbers. Suddenly Adrian rounds the corner and ambushes Kellerman with a baseball bat. Kellerman drops to the ground and Adrian tells LJ to run. Kellerman quickly rolls over and shoots Adrian in the chest. LJ runs back to the house and finds his mother face down in the doorway. He has no choice but to run.

In a Chicago alleyway, a barefoot LJ stumbles in terror, eyes red from crying and panic on his face. His cell phone rings. In a daze, he answers to hear Kellerman’s voice ask, “Where are you going, LJ?” Kellerman tells LJ that he wants LJ’s cooperation right now. LJ threatens to go to the police, but Kellerman tells him that might not be such a good idea since LJ’s prints are on the weapon. Still in LJ’s house, Kellerman applies LJ’s fingerprints that he lifted using an adhesive strip to the handle of the gun. Hale crouches near Lisa’s body, using a pair of LJ’s shoes to make footprints on the floor. LJ says no one is going to believe it, but Kellerman responds, “When they catch you -- and they will catch you -- they’ll try you as an adult, you know that right? We can protect you, LJ. Right now, we’re the only hope you’ve got.” LJ hangs up the phone and runs down the street.

Bellick finds Westmoreland in his cell. “You got Marilyn back,” he grumbles. Bellick lights up a cigarette and then sits down in Westmoreland’s cell. He tells Westmoreland that over the years, they have formed a sort of kinship and that he’s always treated Westmoreland fairly. Westmoreland acknowledges that he’s appreciative of the respect. Bellick continues, nearly breaking down, “I’ve known Bob since he was 18. I got him this job. You can imagine how responsible I feel.” Westmoreland anticipates Bellick’s next question and tells Bellick that he can’t help him. If a con snitches, he “isn’t long for this world.” “If you don’t tell me who killed Bob before I leave this cell, our friendship goes with it,” Bellick warns. Westmoreland just bows his head. Bellick stands up. On his way out, he leans over and pets Marilyn. Farther down the tier, T-Bag and Trokey see Bellick leave. Trokey comments to T-Bag, “Westmoreland knows. And his jaw ain’t that strong.” Trokey walks back into his cell. When T-Bag turns around, he sees Abruzzi glaring down from the upper levels.

Alone, after hours in her office, Sara studies Michael’s files when Nurse Katie enters. “You stalker,” she says through a smile to Sara. Sara replies that she’s not stalking him, she just doesn’t understand how a man of Michael’s background landed in Fox River. Katie asks Sara why she’s so concerned with Michael. She ought to know from her experience that these cons are never what they seem. Sara replies, “He’s the one guy in here I think I can get through to.” Katie leaves, but Sara continues examining Michael’s file.

Just inside the exterior prison gates, Pope explains to Lincoln what happened to LJ’s family. “I’m sorry Burrows. Both of them were dead before the paramedics got there.” Lincoln asks about LJ. Pope tells him, “He’s missing. Police are treating him as a fugitive.” Lincoln asks to call LJ, but Pope has to deny the request. Lincoln explodes, frustrated that he can’t help his son. As Pope walks off, Lincoln looks down the main entry of the prison. A truck brings in a delivery in through a wide, slow-moving gate. Lincoln eyes the armed C.O.s who guard the door, then look past them, outside the walls – to freedom.

Inmates gather around Westmoreland’s cell, whispering and looking inside. Westmoreland returns from the showers and pushes past the crowd into his cell. There, he discovers Marilyn dead on his bunk. He lifts her into his arms and looks out the cell door to lock eyes with Bellick, who is tossing a bunk across the cell. Bellick just stares right back at him.

T-Bag strolls into Trokey’s cell with a simple question of allegiance. “We family, right?” Trokey answers, “Yes, we are.” T-Bag confides that he feels the heat of Bellick closing in and it’s only a matter of time before someone opens his mouth about Bob. T-Bag asks Trokey if he would take the fall for the murder, citing that his record is better than T-Bag’s, so maybe the punishment wouldn’t be so harsh. But Trokey says he can’t step forward, he won’t go down for murdering a hack, family or no family.

Westmoreland enters the guard’s break room with a plastic tub of clean dishes. He removes a coffee pot and sets it on top of the coffee maker. Then he wanders over to the guard’s lockers and opens up Bellick’s. Inside, he takes one cigarette out of a pack and sits down to smoke it. He looks up towards the wall where he sees a giant plaque housing photos of “Fox River Penitentiary Corrections Officer of the Month.” Bellick’s photo stares back at him. Westmoreland glares at the photo as he reaches for a lighter.

Outside on yard P.I., Michael slings a bag of concrete over his shoulder and hefts it to Lincoln who is mixing cement. “I need out. I gotta find him,” Lincoln says through his teeth. Michael promises they’ll find LJ as soon as they get out of Fox River. Lincoln questions when that will be. After all, Michael can’t get access to the necessary room. Michael does his best to keep Lincoln calm before a guard breaks up their chat. When Michael walks away, Lincoln looks up towards the service entrance again. He sizes up the guards standing nearby and waits for his chance to make a break for the gate. When C.O. Patterson turns his back to talk to a truck driver, Lincoln makes his move. Michael grabs a bag of concrete and turns back; Lincoln is gone.

Crouching behind a utility box, Lincoln watches the C.O.s for his chance to flee. Just as he stands to make his move, Michael grabs him and tackles him from behind, “You go out there, they will gun you down!” Michael is furious at what his brother almost tried. Lincoln doesn’t care anymore. He’s desperate. “Think about what you’re doing. You can’t help him if you’re dead.” The brothers are moments away from a fistfight when Patterson breaks them up. Before the C.O. can take disciplinary action on the two, alarms sound around the prison and a giant plume of gray smoke rises from the guard’s break room.

Westmoreland strolls the yard and Michael crosses from another direction. “Thanks,” Michael says. But Westmoreland smiles. “I didn’t do it for you.”

Pope watches over a fire inspector searching through the ash. “Found the source,” he tells Pope and presents him with a cigarette. Pope stares at the cigarette and looks over to Bellick with an accusatory eye. Before he can begin yelling at Bellick, a C.O. tells Bellick he has a visitor. It’s Cherry; he’s shaking like a leaf. “What do you want?” yells Bellick. Cherry gulps. “I know who killed Bob, sir.”

Bellick storms into gen pop with a team of C.O.s behind him. They beeline towards Trokey and T-Bag, the latter of whose face registers alarm before Bellick makes a sharp turn into Trokey’s cell. Bellick flips up Trokey’s mattress and finds the photo of Bob’s daughter. Trokey is quick to defend himself, “I have NO idea how that got there.” The C.O.s grab Trokey and begin dragging him away. Trokey screams back to T-Bag, “You set me up!” T-Bag plays innocent, even feigning outrage at Trokey’s accusation. T-Bag tousles Cherry’s hair and ducks back into his cell. Cherry lingers outside a look of self-loathing on his face.

Nick opens the door to a rustic cabin. As he and Veronica enter, the daylight pours in, illuminating the dust on the furniture and the spider webs on the wall. Nick explains that this was his father’s cabin. He had wanted a place that was completely “off the map.” No phones. A generator for electricity. A well for water. Nick assures Veronica that they are safe here.

Sucre, Abruzzi, Michael and Lincoln walk out for P.I. duty. On the other side of the fence, T-Bag jogs over, demanding to be part of the job. Abruzzi leans toward the C.O. accompanying them and says, “I don’t think so.” With the fall guy for Bob’s death now established, T-Bag is fearless. “Ah, John. You can't be serious. Not after that long illustrious history we shared together. All those nights in New York City, in California, in St. Louis. They were good times, weren’t they, John?” Michael shoots a look at T-Bag, aware that he intends to deliver on his promise to blow the plan. Michael quickly turns to Abruzzi. Abruzzi turns to the C.O..

They march into the burned out break room. T-Bag follows behind in his own blue P.I. jumpsuit. Bellick, still smarting from the implication that he is to blame for the fire, dishes out his orders. “All I gotta say is, this room’s your only priority now. It better be brand-spankin-new when you’re done. And if you’re thinking about getting cute, trying to trunk one of those tools out of here, Brady’s got the outlines of every single piece of hardware in there.” Bellick and the C.O.s exit. Michael waits a beat before sending the men into action. They pull back the burned carpet to reveal a drain a few inches in diameter that Michael insists, “Goes down four feet. Connects to the mainline below. All we gotta do is widen it...and we have ourselves an onramp to Route 66.” The men grab sledgehammers as Michael lays down a canvas tarp to muffle the noise. Sucre stands guard. Lincoln’s hammer swings over his head and crashes to the floor.

At night, LJ is tucked against a wall, cold and tired. LJ relives the moment with Kellerman in the backyard, “ Nine. One. One. Send. You really think you can push four buttons... before I push one?” But LJ wasn’t calling for help, he was pressing the photo button on his cell phone. Saved to his camera phone, is a picture of Kellerman. LJ looks at the man who murdered his family, then closes the phone.

In well-appointed office, Hale and Kellerman stand before the desk of the Garlic Cutter. She hands Kellerman a newspaper, and asks Kellerman to summarize he lead article, “ Evidently there was an explosion in a Gold Coast apartment this morning. Gas line. Everyone inside was killed instantly,” he tells her. When she asks about LJ, Kellerman lies, “He’s in custody.” A hint of trepidation shows on Hale’s face. The Garlic Cutter continues, “Now that it's yesterday's news, we can put it behind us, can't we? Move on to the next chapter of our lives. You’re not just doing this for me. Or my brother.” A door at the side of the room opens, another Secret Service Agent enters and addresses the Garlic Cutter, “They’re ready for you Madam Vice President.” She stands, looks at Hale and Kellerman. She says, “You’re doing it for your country.” She exits into the other room. She stands behind a podium where camera flashes and eager reporters consume her attention.

The sounds of popping flashbulbs intermixes with the crashing of sledgehammers as the P.I. group gets closer to Route 66.




Prison Break
Episode 109 - "Tweener"
Airdate: 10/31/2005

Water courses down Michael’s bare arm over a tattoo of an angel. Michael looks up when he hears a meek voice from the neighboring shower head pleading, “Help me.” The voice belongs to Cherry, the young scared inmate whom T-Bag has been controlling since his arrival. Before Michael can respond, T-Bag enters the shower room and signals for Cherry to move along. T-Bag takes Cherry’s place next to Michael, apologizing for his cellmate’s gregariousness. Michael tells T-Bag to give the kid a break. T-Bag hastens to remind Michael that he has no business meddling in his affairs, “Not when I’m so fully invested in your affairs.” Michael grits his teeth. “What’s between you and him, is between you and him,” Michael says as he walks out of the showers. He passes Cherry on his way out. “You’ve got to help me,” Cherry pleads. Michael ignores him.

“You’ve got to help me,” Lincoln begs Pope as he stands shackled in the warden’s office. Lincoln is desperate to find his son and actually asks Pope to allow him out of prison, under supervision, in order to track LJ down. The request stuns Pope, but Lincoln keeps pressing. The warden can grant furloughs in the case of a family emergency. Pope informs him that this situation does not qualify as a family emergency; his son is the primary suspect in a double homicide.

Michael walks up to the guard’s break room in his blue P.I. jumpsuit. He passes T-Bag out front who inventories supplies, clipboard in hand. Bellick is inside barking orders at Sucre, accusing him of being lazy. Bellick points to his many pictures on the Employee of the Month plaque as evidence of the success that hard work will bring. When Bellick exits, T-Bag gives the all clear signal by knocking on the front door. Abruzzi, Sucre and Michael grab their sledge hammers and continue hammering away at the concrete surrounding the drainpipe. Sucre notes that if the guards find the rubble, they’re busted. Michael replies, “That’s why we need to get rid of it, one piece at a time.”

In the yard, the gang stands at different positions, dropping handfuls of concrete and mashing it into the ground with their feet. The yard inmates look up when a Department of Corrections bus enters the sallyport. A twisted smile creeps over T-Bag’s face as he zeroes in on the inmates filing off the bus. “Freshmen.”

The prisoners on the bus take in their new surroundings. A young, tough-looking inmate, Tweener, steps of the bus. He squares his shoulders and warns the nervous looking inmate in front of him to put on his jail face. “ These crabs see you puckerin’, they gonna bitchify you in a heartbeat.” T-Bag makes a satisfied sound and walks off, Michael follows seconds later. C-Note walks to where Michael stood. He bends over and examines a chunk of concrete that Michael had just dropped.

Returning to the cell block, Sucre grins at Michael. “Looks like I gotta find something else to call you now… you ain’t a fish no more. You ain’t the newest con in the tank... no... more...” Sucre trails off as the inmates look up to the second tier in shock. They see Cherry, bed sheets tied around his neck, climbing over the railing. He’s ready to jump. Before Michael can do anything but shout, “NO!” Cherry throws himself off the tier. Michael turns away from the sight of Cherry’s dangling body.

Michael sits behind Lincoln in the chapel, plagued with guilt over Cherry’s suicide. Lincoln tells him that there was nothing he could do; once T-Bag got to him, Cherry’s fate was sealed. Michael disagrees. “That’s not how she raised us. A man’s down, you give him a hand.” Michael is inconsolable. The escape is his priority, but he wrestles with the question, “At what price?” Lincoln tries to focus Michael back on the task at hand. “My son is out there with a bull’s eye on his back. Do whatever you can to get us out of here…please,” Lincoln begs.

In the kitchen of Nick’s father’s remote cabin hideout, Veronica searches for coffee in the cabinets, but most of them are bare. She opens the final cabinet and sees a false back, slightly ajar. She slowly pulls it open to reveal a sizable stash of handguns. Nick walks up behind her and immediately senses her suspicion. He tells her that she needs to stop looking at him like he’s one of the bad guys. After all, Nick notes before storming out of the room, he’s putting his life on the line for Lincoln, who unlike his father, is “a scumbag criminal who just happens to be in prison for the one crime he didn’t commit.”

In the yard, C-Note walks the fence line, hunting for more evidence of what Michael’s up to. He scans the yard and finds Michael, covertly dropping fragments of concrete on the ground. Tweener arrives at the fence next to C-Note. “Y’all mind if I lamp with y’all, Cuzzo?” he asks. C-Note is not interested in fraternizing with this punk and barks at him to go somewhere else. Tweener tries his best to fit in, but the black inmates force him to leave. T-Bag stands in the distance, admiring Tweener’s “spunk.”

Abruzzi also ditches concrete rubble, dropping it into a drain when Bellick suddenly calls out to him. The men speak through the fence. Bellick gruffly informs Abruzzi that his monthly bribe from Philly Falzone hasn’t come yet. Abruzzi is at a loss as to why the payments would have stopped. Bellick looks Abruzzi in the eye, “I’m going back into the office at the end of the day. Checking my balance again. If it’s not where it’s supposed to be... all these privileges you got? They’re gone.”

Abruzzi gets on the phone in the yard, looking to set things straight with Philly. The man at the other end tells Abruzzi that Philly is busy and will have to call him later. Before Abruzzi can argue, the man hangs up. Abruzzi slams the phone down, too. Since when does anyone hang up on him?

Veronica finds Nick dressing in the bedroom and apologizes for her earlier behavior. Nick tells her that the pressure is getting to them and while they’re safe in the cabin, they won’t find any exculpatory evidence there. Nick tells Veronica his plan. “Man gets murdered, the first person they talk to when they want to find out who his real enemies were... the wife.” Nick wants to go back to Chicago and have lunch with Terrence Steadman’s widow, Leslie.

Still having heard nothing from LJ, Lincoln’s frustrations take over in P.I.. He swings his hammer with rage, as if he wants to break out of Fox River right now. Abruzzi steps in and tells him to slow it down or the guards will hear. Sucre slides in the door and tells them that guards are coming. The men move quickly to conceal the hole. They cover the floor with carpeting, then place a table over the hole. C.O. Patterson walks in, demanding the gang to leave. Confused, the gang hands over their tools and heads outside. Patterson sends them around a corner without explanation. He then sneaks in Becky, Pope’s assistant. Becky giggles, “We’re so bad.”

Patterson hoists Becky onto the table. As their tryst escalates, the table inches closer to the hole.

Around the corner, the guys watch Patterson and Becky exit the guard’s room. The only question now is, “Did he find the hole?”

Michael squats down and takes a look at how close one of the table legs is to the hole. “Another inch and he would have found it. We need to find something to cover this hole, ASAP.”

Abruzzi sits in visitation with his nervous and non-plussed business manager, Knowlton. Knowlton has some bad news: Abruzzi is broke. Philly has liquidated all of Abruzzi’s assets, the only money Abruzzi has left is thirty-thousand dollars in his wife’s account. Disheartened, Abruzzi heads back to gen pop. On his way out he passes Gus, who doesn’t acknowledge Abruzzi’s presence. Abruzzi watches Gus greet Philly Falzone with a hug. Philly casts a dismissive glance Abruzzi’s way before inviting Gus to have a seat. The visitation gate closes and Abruzzi is led away.

On the phone in her office, Sara speaks with a claims adjuster for Michael’s medical insurance company. Sara explains that Michael’s insurance from his last job hasn’t lapsed, so the state is trying to get the company to pay for the incident with Michael’s toes. The adjuster reviews Michael’s file and finds that the only deductible he has met is his psych deductible. Sara furrows her brow. “Sorry, psych as in psychiatric?”

Abruzzi stalks towards Gus in the yard. He doesn’t remember giving Gus permission to call Philly. Gus has some information that comes as a surprise to Abruzzi. “There’s been a restructuring. Came down from Philly himself. You didn’t deliver Fibonacci. So I’m the man in here now.” Abruzzi makes a move to set Gus straight, but Gus’ new group of thugs holds Abruzzi back. Gus informs his old boss, “You’re yesterday’s news, John.”

Tweener strolls into gen pop, still walking tall even though no one wants anything to do with him. He tries to talk to a large Aryan brother who rejects him with the condemnation, “You’re a disgrace to your skin.” Then he punches Tweener in the chest. Before the incident can escalate, T-Bag jumps in to keep the peace. “He just slipped,” T-Bag calls out as he holds back the Aryan Brothers. T-Bag helps Tweener to his feet, then asks his name. Michael warily watches this interaction from the tier.

Lincoln , still unsure of LJ’s whereabouts, paces in his cell. C.O. Scheuring has come to drop off Lincoln’s meal and Lincoln takes the moment to beg Scheuring to make a phone call. Scheuring tells Lincoln that he can’t help. Lincoln pleads with Scheuring, grabbing the C.O.’s hand through the slot in the door. Lincoln asks, “What if it was your son?”

LJ moves through the streets, barefoot. He ducks around a corner and looks at the picture of Kellerman on his cell phone. He sends the photo to his e-mail address just as the phone shows he has an incoming call. The caller ID reads INMATE. Lincoln clutches a phone receiver as C.O. Scheuring stands nearby. After assuring LJ that he knows he’s innocent, Lincoln tells his son to call Veronica. LJ already tried, but her number was disconnected. Lincoln tells him to call Nick Savrinn. Just then, Kellerman and Hale’s sedan pulls up only a few yards from LJ’s hiding spot. Kellerman jumps out and pursues LJ on foot. LJ takes off, leaving Lincoln hanging and assuming the worst.

LJ sprints down the city streets with Kellerman close on his heels while Hale slowly circles in the car. LJ runs into a nearby parking lot and quickly ducks under an SUV. Unaware of LJ’s exact location, Kellerman decides to rile LJ’s emotions. “Hear that?” Kellerman cocks his gun as he walks through the lot. “Know what it means? You could ask your Mom, but... I think you might have some trouble getting an answer out of her right about now.” LJ fights to remain quiet despite Kellerman’s cruel provocations and rolls under the cars to get away. LJ’s phone vibrates. Kellerman and Hale key in on the sound, but a man at the entrance of the lot honks his horn, distracting them. When Kellerman drops down and looks under the car, LJ is nowhere to be found.

Nick and Veronica move through a classy restaurant looking for Leslie Steadman. Nick sees a cell phone lying in the open on a table and palms it. “Just getting connected, that’s all.” Nick spots Leslie and walks to her table. Nick introduces himself and Veronica, using false names. He tells Leslie that they are part of the National Victims’ Rights Association and uses that guise to ask Leslie who else might have killed Terrence. Leslie replies, “ If we talked about who had motive to kill Terrance, we’d be here all day. Look around. Half the people in this place were shareholders in his company. Every one of them sat at my husband’s memorial and every one of them was thinking the same thing -- thank God he’s gone.” Then Leslie offhandedly reveals rumors of a possible indictment against Terrence. “ Do the math. CEO of a corporation gets indicted for fraud, investors start losing money. A lot of money,” Leslie says, coldly. “We’re talking billions of dollars… People have killed for a lot less.”

Tweener stumbles through the yard. He’s been completely isolated by the other inmates and they just knock him around as he walks by. He sits on the bleachers and T-Bag moves in. “ Not so good of a position you find yourself in, is it? Whites don’t want you. Blacks don’t want you. You’re just caught in the middle, aren’t you? A regular Tweener.” T-Bag then puts his hand on Tweener’s knee. Tweener jumps up and warns T-Bag, “You come near me again, I’m going to kill you.” T-Bag licks his lips. “Then you’re gonna have to, little man.”

T-Bag taunts Tweener all the way back into gen pop, “Best sleep with one eye open, girlie!” Michael steps in, suggesting to T-Bag, “Maybe you ought to leave the kid alone.” As T-Bag nods towards the toilet in Michael’s cell, he reminds Michael to mind his business. Michael has no choice but to back down.

Sara sits in the office of Dr. David George Brighton, Michael’s psychiatrist. Sara tells him she feels that she can get through to Michael, and that she would like to understand more about how his mind works. “ Michael suffered from a couple of things. One was a condition called low-latent inhibition,” Brighton tells her. He explains that the condition causes people to take simple objects, such as a lamp, and see more than just the lamp. They fixate on every piece, from the cord to the bulb. “If someone with a low IQ has low latent inhibition, it almost always results in mental illness. If someone with a high IQ has it, it almost always results in creative genius,” he adds. Brighton continues to explain that Michael also had almost no sense of self-worth because of the death of his parents. The low self-worth paired with the low-latent inhibition made Michael more attuned to the suffering and pain around him, which caused him to feel that he needed to help everyone. Sara says that she had no idea about any of this. Brighton replies, “Then maybe you don’t know Michael Scofield.”

At night, T-Bag sings through the darkness, “Tweener, I’m coming for you…” Tweener sits pressed against the wall, crying softly. Michael watches from his cell on the second tier.

As Nick and Veronica arrive back at the cabin, Nick checks his messages with the stolen phone. “ Lincoln’s son LJ left me a message, he’s in trouble.”

Veronica calls LJ on his cell phone. LJ begs her to come get him, but she says she can’t, she’s not in Chicago. LJ looks around the corner and sees Hale and Kellerman pull up. “How the hell do they know where I am?” Veronica tells him, “I need you to come to us; we’re in Lake Mercer.” Hale and Kellerman use a surveillance device to listen to the entire conversation from the car. Though Hale wants to apprehend LJ right now, Kellerman decides they will follow him to Lake Mercer. “A bird in the hand just became three,” he gloats. They pull away, leaving LJ alone in the streets.

Abruzzi , in his cell, removes a light bulb from a fixture. He looks over it for a moment, and then smashes it with his finger. He holds up the jagged remaining piece and examines it.

Gus lies asleep in his bunk. Abruzzi perches above Gus, and then slowly presses the shattered bulb down over Gus’ left eye. Gus asks what Abruzzi is doing. He replies, “Delivering yesterday’s news.” Abruzzi presses down firmly on the bulb. Gus screams.

LJ buys a ticket at the bus stop and turns to board the bus. On the way out, he steals a pair of shoes from the bag of a man sleeping nearby.

Michael dumps another handful of rocks in the yard as he watches T-Bag and his goons tease Tweener. Sara walks up behind Michael from the other side of the fence and tells him, “I just want you to know that if you need someone to talk to Michael, you're not alone in here. It’s part of my job, you know, to counsel patients. Help them with their problems.” She studies Michael carefully, but he remains distant and measured. Sara tells him that she “sort of backed into some information” about Michael, and subtly reveals she’s aware of his need to help others. She reminds him that he did a lot of charity work and asks what could have happened to land him in Fox River. Michael, with an edge of bitterness replies, “The guy you’re talking about died the moment I stepped inside these walls.” Sara walks away, still without the connection she’d been hoping for.

A bus approaches the Lake Mercer station. Hale and Kellerman exit their car with guns drawn. They board the bus, showing their badges. They make their way down the aisle, still following their tracking device, but LJ is nowhere to be seen. They open the bathroom door and find LJ’s phone. Kellerman flips open the phone to see the photo of himself and lets out a bitter, defeated laugh.

Another bus pulls into a station at New Glarus. LJ steps off the bus and finds Veronica and Nick. He slowly walks to Veronica and she wraps her arms around him. In flashback, LJ stands at the street corner after Veronica tells him to go to Lake Mercer. Veronica then frantically sends him a text message. “DUMP THE PHONE, THEY’RE TRACKING YOU. WE’RE IN NEW GLARUS.” Back in the present, LJ holds Veronica tight.

The inability to locate LJ driving him mad, Lincoln paces in his cell. C.O. Mack walks into Lincoln’s cell with papers he says are “communication from your attorney.” Lincoln signs for it and tears into the envelope when the C.O.s leave. He flips until he finds a Post-It note which has “ Notes from Mrs. Weatman’s 6th grade Biology class” written on it. Lincoln immediately moves his finger across the paper, tracing the right column of the text. He makes out the sentence:

It’s
LJ
I’m
With
Veronica
I’m
Okay.
I
Love
You.

Lincoln looks off, the tension in him melting at this news.

Michael, Sucre and T-Bag walk to their P.I. duty. T-Bag grins as he ogles Tweener who is heading back into the prison. T-Bag announces that he’s happy he’s going to be back in the real world soon and, “... the fact that I'm gonna get me a final piece of tail certainly don’t hurt either.” Once they’re inside the guard’s room, Michael quickly grabs a crowbar and smashes T-Bags knee. T-Bag collapses to the ground, howling in pain. As T-Bag grabs his knee and whimpers, Michael lays down the law. “It ends right now, you hear me?” Michael warns, but T-Bag is resilient and calls out for the guards. Michael calls T-Bag’s bluff; he’s sure T-Bag won’t talk because he wants out just as much as everyone else. Michael is right in T-Bag’s face, practically challenging him to sing. A C.O. enters and asks if there’s a problem. Michael stares T-Bag down until T-Bag tells the C.O. that he only thought they were missing some tools. After the C.O. leaves, Michael makes it clear to T-Bag that he’s in charge. “You and I may be stuck in this little dance together. But I’m calling the shots now. First shot is that kid out there, you don’t touch him. Ever. We understand each other?” T-Bag, his wings clipped, simply nods.

Before they can get back to work, Bellick marches into the guard’s room and stands directly on the hole. Miraculously, he doesn’t fall in. “Abruzzi, you and me need to have a conversation,” he says. When Bellick leaves, Michael pulls back the carpet to reveal that the Employee of the Month plaque is covering the hole. Michael looks up to Sucre, who winks.

“I warned you,” Bellick tells Abruzzi. Abruzzi asks for more time, but Bellick rejects the offer and walks off.

Later, T-Bag limps through the yard. Tweener calls out an insult to T-Bag. T-Bag looks at Tweener, then at Michael and Sucre across the yard. T-Bag walks on. Tweener jumps to his feet and mouths off with confidence, thinking that he’s the reason T-Bag didn’t make a move. Michael and Sucre exchange smiles, but the good mood is short-lived. “Uh oh, we got a problem,” Sucre says. A new group of P.I. grunts are moving toward the guard room, tools in hand. Abruzzi sees it too. He begins shouting to Bellick through the fence, “Bellick! What are they doing? That’s P.I., I run it.” Bellick pauses a moment and looks at Abruzzi, “Not anymore you don’t.” The inmates continue on toward the guard’s room. Gus, with a bandage over his eye and gauze wrapped around his head, leads them. Off Michael, realizing the ramifications of another group in charge of P.I..




Prison Break
Episode 110 - Sleight of Hand
11/07/2005

Drops of blood bead along a newly inked line on Michael Scofield’s forearm. Sid, Michael’s tattoo artist, puts the finishing touches on a set of fanned playing cards. The suits of some of the cards remain hidden, but the numbers are visible on all ten.

From the fanned cards in the flashback, a card is slapped down on the bleachers in present day Fox River. Abruzzi, recently stripped of his power by Philly Falzone, sits alone playing solitaire. He looks on with concern as the new P.I. crew moves into the guards’ room. There, the crew tears the walls apart, still unaware of the hole that has been dug beneath them. Abruzzi sees Bellick walking past the fence and asks if he can work out a deal with him. Bellick doesn’t care about Abruzzi or the history between them. It’s Falzone’s bribe that motivated Bellick to allow Abruzzi free reign over P.I.. Without Philly’s envelope, Bellick snarls, “You’re out of business.”

Michael stands by the fence line, watching the new P.I. crew come and go from the guards’ room. Abruzzi approaches and verbalizes his plan. The only way he can see getting P.I. back is “if I prove to Falzone I’m still worthy, that I still got what it takes. And the only way I’m gonna do that is if I give him Fibonacci.” Michael questions Abruzzi’s motives for discovering Fibonacci’s location. Is it to help the escape? Or does he just want to get in good with the mafia again? Abruzzi swears that he only wants the information to get them back into the guards’ room, but Michael isn’t convinced.

In chapel, Michael whispers his new quandary to Lincoln. Michael knows that if he reveals Fibonacci’s location within the Witness Protection Program, then Falzone will certainly track him down and kill him. Lincoln doesn’t see the moral problem of facilitating the death of a mafia scumbag. However, Michael explains that Fibonacci was just a middle-manager at a mob-run warehouse where he saw Abruzzi order the execution of two men. Fibonacci is not the heartless mobster turncoat Lincoln is imagining. He came forward as a witness because he thought it was the right thing to do. Like Lincoln, he is an innocent man who was in the wrong place at the wrong time. For the escape to move forward and for Michael to save Lincoln’s life, an innocent man has to die.

Kellerman answers his cell phone inside a downtown Chicago high-rise hotel where he and Hale await their next assignment. The Vice President’s voice is all business as she informs them that she has a “friend” who is going to meet them in the hotel to make sure that their plans are still on track. Kellerman says that everything is under control and “nothing will affect tomorrow, if that’s what you’re concerned about.” The Vice President calmly replies, “I’m not worried about tomorrow. My friend’s a problem solver, that’s all... Do me a favor and make him feel like part of the team.” Hale squirms as Kellerman gives him the unsettling news. “She’s bringing someone in.” Hale regrets lying about having LJ in their possession. Though Kellerman is quick to remind his partner that revealing that detail would have damned them both, Hale mutters uneasily about the conspiracy, “Swear to God, it just gets deeper and deeper.” Kellerman retains his signature cool when he parries with a remark that lands somewhere between a joke and a threat. “You keep talking like that, I’m going to have to put a bullet in your head.” Kellerman smiles, then tells Hale that they’ll find out what this friend wants and “deal with it accordingly.”

Sucre hustles across the yard, “Michael, you’d better see this.” He leads Michael back to the fence line next to the guards’ room. There, an inmate hefts a large roll of new carpet. Sucre calls out to him, asks him when they’re going to be putting that new carpet in. The inmate shouts back, “Got to tear up the old stuff first. Soon as we’re done with that. Tonight. Tomorrow maybe.”

C.O. Patterson brings a chow tray to Lincoln’s cell. In addition to Lincoln’s daily prison food, there’s a form on the tray. Patterson says that it’s Lincoln’s last meal request form. Lincoln slips the form back out through the slot and it falls near Patterson’s feet. But Patterson is compassionate; he would hate for Linc to be stuck eating whatever’s on chow that day as his last meal. Patterson slides the form back under the door, “In case you think of something.”

C-Note creeps along the fence and calls discreetly to Gus, the new P.I. boss who still has a bandage covering his left eye. C-Note tells him that he wants a job, even offers to pay Gus one-hundred dollars a month to work on P.I.. Gus counters, “One-hundred and fifty dollars.” C-Note smiles, “Sign me up then, baby.”

Michael tracks down Abruzzi in the yard. He’s been thinking about what Abruzzi said and asks him to set up a meeting with Falzone. Abruzzi laughs, explaining Philly doesn’t deal with guys like Michael. Michael smiles, “Tell him if he wants Fibonacci, he’s gonna have to.”

Abruzzi calls Falzone and tells him that Michael is ready to deliver Fibonacci. Falzone praises Abruzzi for finally doing something right. But before they hang up, Falzone makes it clear that if he comes all the way to Fox River and Michael gives him nothing, then Abruzzi’s suffering will have only just begun. Abruzzi walks off and Michael is next to pick up the pay phone. He rolls up his sleeve and checks the tattoo of the playing cards. He proceeds to dial the number inked onto his forearm: 312-909-3529. The female voice that answers is thick with an Eastern European accent. Their exchange is brief, but there is clearly a rapport between them as Michael asks, “Remember I said I might be calling you on Fibonacci?... Well, it’s time.”

In the infirmary, Sara cleans the bandage on Michael’s left foot. He is still healing from the first time Abruzzi tried to elicit Fibonacci’s whereabouts from Michael. When Sara again tries to ask exactly how Michael lost his toes, Michael changes the subject. He asks about the flowers sitting on her desk. Sara explains that they are from her father; today is her birthday. Michael wishes her a happy birthday, but this is clearly a touchy subject. “It's just in those twenty-nine birthdays, my dad's actually seen me on exactly six of them. So I get flowers instead. Flowers that end up dead and in the trash a week later.”

Gus points to a pile of lumber and barks to his men to take it into the guards’ room. C-Note insists on doing it and eagerly brings the wood inside. He closes the guards’ room door behind him, props the lumber against a wall and begins to investigate the room in search of the source of the cement fragments he’s found. After checking the walls and sink area, he hears an odd squeak from the floor. C-Note pulls up the carpet to see the wooden plaque. He lifts the plaque and looks inside. C-Note smiles.

LJ sits alone outside the secluded cabin. Nick walks outside and sits next to him. Nick tries to connect with LJ, confiding that when he was LJ’s age, his dad was also in prison for something he didn’t do. In the end, Nick’s father was exonerated, but it was a long battle in which they lost almost everything. But that’s why Nick knows that they have to keep fighting to save Lincoln’s life; they can’t give up. Nick assures LJ, “We’re gonna beat this thing, okay?”

There’s a knock on the door of Kellerman and Hale’s hotel room. At the door is a middle-aged man in an ill-fitting suit. His tie is askew and he appears a bit winded as he lumbers into the room. Kellerman asks the man’s name, the man only replies, “Quinn.” Quinn tells them that he’s only there to make sure things are under control as they get closer to “the big event.” Kellerman tells him that he was unaware that things were out of control, but Quinn calls his bluff. Quinn knows Kellerman and Hale have lied to the Vice President; Veronica, Nick and LJ are all very much alive. Kellerman walks towards Quinn, raising a finger but Quinn simply grabs Kellerman’s finger, snapping it in two places. Hale jumps up, but Kellerman calls him off. Quinn stands up with an authority that silences Hale. “You and your friend are off the job until further notice. That doesn’t come from me, that doesn’t come from the White House, it comes from the Company, understand?” He calmly advises Kellerman on how to treat his broken finger and walks out.

Veronica sits behind her laptop, studying a large and detailed spreadsheet. Nick sees that the spreadsheet is Ecofield’s SEC fillings. They begin looking over the figures and see that almost a half a billion dollars was funneled into Ecofield via federal grants for alternative fuel research. But Veronica notes that they never made a profit, nor did they make any fuel cells, patents or findings. Nick realizes that EcoField was just a shell company. Veronica turns from her computer. “Question is, for what?”

Michael walks into visitation, followed by Abruzzi. Michael sits down next to Falzone, who immediately wants to know how Michael found Fibonacci. “Did my homework,” Michael notes. Philly doesn’t appreciate Michael’s elliptical remarks and Abruzzi instructs Michael to “Give it up.” Michael explains that before people are placed in Witness Protection, they are supervised by a local sheriff. Michael called each sheriff on duty in the area. “If the sheriff was on duty, he wasn’t protecting Fibonacci.” Only one sheriff wasn’t in his office, so that had to be the one guarding Fibonacci. Michael also knew that it can take awhile to arrange new identities for people under protection, so the sheriff would have to spend a long time cooped up in a hotel far away from home. Men in that situation tend to call home a lot. So Michael ordered a duplicate phone bill for the sheriff and stole it from his home mailbox. On the bill, Michael found an out of area phone number that was called nearly every day, then reverse-traced it to find the location where Fibonacci was being held. Michael smiles as he reveals that he still has a contact watching Fibonacci. Falzone examines Michael, then realizes, “This is about money, isn’t it?” Michael smiles again, glibly noting that once he’s on the outside his resumé’s not going to cut it. Falzone is flabbergasted. Abruzzi, betrayed, slaps a photo of Veronica on the table. Michael pales. He asks how they got that photo. Abruzzi reveals, “Since you took it upon yourself to have people watching our interests outside, we took it upon ourselves to have people watching yours. So, who’s it gonna be, Fish? Fibonacci...or your little girlfriend there?” Michael has no choice. He implores Falzone to promise that his hit on Fibonacci will be quick and painless, but Falzone’s only promise is that if the next thing Michael says is not Fibonacci’s address, then Veronica will be his first target. “Canada. 345 Hamilton Avenue. Thunder Bay, Ontario,” Michael mutters. Falzone sends him away and embraces Abruzzi in a fraternal reconciliation. Falzone will fix Abruzzi’s situation with Bellick immediately. Falzone turns to leave, but Abruzzi grabs his arm. “Right before you pull the trigger, look that son of a bitch right in the eyes and tell him John says goodbye.”

Michael returns to his cell. His face falls into his hands.

Television cameras gather around a gazebo that is covered in red, white and blue banners. The Vice President walks down the steps where she is confronted by Kellerman. Kellerman is incensed that she sent in a “baby-sitter.” The Vice President snaps, “Don’t take that tone with me. Remember who you’re talking to. I’m the Vice President of this country.” Kellerman replies, “No. Actually you're Caroline Reynolds of Montgomery, Illinois.” The Vice President takes him aside to explain that had Kellerman done his job, she wouldn’t have been forced to summon reinforcements. Kellerman shakes his head. “Something you need to understand. You just awoke a sleeping beast by calling those guys in. They got a bigger agenda than any of us.” He adds that if things aren't going their way, they get real nasty, real quick.

Veronica’s ex-fiancé Sebastian Balfour returns to his apartment. From down the hallway, Quinn calls out to him and introduces himself as, “Nestor Pollack. Midwestern Life and Casualty.” He tells Sebastian that he’s trying to track down Veronica about the explosion in her apartment. Sebastian is stunned at the news. He tells Sebastian that Veronica may have survived, but he can’t seem to locate her. “We were hoping you could help.”

C.O. Patterson does cell check on death row. As he walks past Lincoln’s cell, Lincoln slides the last meal request form under the door. Patterson picks it up and looks it over. “Blueberry pancakes, huh? Interesting choice.”

Nick is fast asleep on the cabin sofa; LJ sleeps in a chair across from him. But Veronica is still awake, working on the laptop. Suddenly, a message window appears on her screen from Sebastian. It reads, “Veronica, are you out there?” A moment later, another message pops up. “If U R out there, I’m worried.” Veronica sighs, then can’t stop herself from responding, “I’m fine.” The next message asks where she is, but she only replies she can’t say and needs to go. Back in Sebastian’s apartment, Sebastian is dead on the floor. As Quinn finishes typing, he plugs a device into the computer. On the computer screen, a detailed map of the United States appears, a marker is moving across from the west and closing in on a location. It stops, beeps and produces an exact location.

Michael sits awake, tapping his thumbs on his watch.

On a dark, suburban street in Canada, Falzone and his hitmen pull up to the address provided by Michael. “This is it.”

Fibonacci kisses his three kids before he puts them to bed. Then he heads down stairs where his wife is folding laundry.

As they ready their weapons, Falzone announces to his men, “Tonight we send a message, gentlemen. We’re going to hurt him, and his family, like he hurt ours.” The four men exit the car, guns drawn. They cross the street, looking around to make sure the coast is clear.

Fibonacci reaches for the knob on the front door.

As Falzone and his men exit the car and ambush the house, flood lights flip on from several locations. Then the Royal Canadian Mounted Police pour out of vans and from around the corner. It was a set up. Philly and his men drop their guns and are handcuffed by the officers.

Fibonacci walks to a bench on his porch and flips open a newspaper. The paper’s name reads “TOPEKA TRIBUNE.”

On the phone in the yard, Abruzzi listens to an associate fill him in on Falzone’s bust. “International gun charges. Parole violation. He’s in deep...” Abruzzi nods his head as he registers the news.

Up in the infirmary, Michael sees that Sara has already thrown out her father’s flowers. He tells her that they’re not dead, but she replies with intention, “I don’t like getting attached to things if I know they won’t last.” Michael tries to cheer her up, but is unable to make her smile. On his way out, he slips something onto her desk. After he leaves, Sara turns around and discovers an origami rose. She picks it up and can’t help but smile.

Abruzzi storms down the second tier of cell block, pushing his way through inmates until he reaches Michael’s cell. He swoops in, putting his face in Michael’s. “We have a lot to talk about, don’t we, Fish?” Abruzzi tells Michael what happened to Philly and Michael asks him how he feels about it. “Pretty darn good,” Abruzzi says. The shared smile between these two reveals that they had orchestrated this sting together. They now have P.I. back. “Nice work John, you’re a hell of an actor,” Michael says. Abruzzi hands Michael the photo of Veronica, which Michael reveals is actually Lincoln’s picture. Abruzzi asks, “You are going to give me Fibonacci when we're outside those walls, right?” Michael says of course, but Abruzzi snatches Veronica’s photo back… for insurance purposes.

Lincoln closes his eyes and flashes back to cooking breakfast with a young LJ. LJ asks his dad why they can’t have breakfast together every day. Lincoln explains that it’s because LJ lives with his mother. But Lincoln promises that when they do have breakfast, it will always be very special. Lincoln proceeds to the stove to make another batch of blueberry pancakes.

Abruzzi walks up behind Gus, sitting at a table of thugs. “Take a walk,” he tells Gus. Gus leaves without a word and Abruzzi, now fully back in control, deals a hand of cards.

Across the yard, C-Note walks up to Michael and sprinkles a handful of broken concrete the table in front of him. “We got a lot to talk about, don’t we?” Without answering C-Note, Michael sweeps the concrete off the table and moves away without explanation. C-Note assures Michael that he’s not done with him.

On P.I. duty, Michael updates the crew on the status of the hole. They’ve made it through the hardest part and he tells Sucre, Abruzzi and Lincoln that they’ll be into the pipe by Friday. T-Bag slithers in and announces bulls are on their way. They quickly cover up the hole just as Bellick marches in with C-Note. C-Note insists that he’s on this P.I. detail. Abruzzi denies him, but C-Note walks purposefully toward the escape hole and stands directly on the plaque covering it. A nod from Michael tells Abruzzi there’s no other way to placate C-Note – he’s on the P.I. team.

Nick and Veronica still wrestle over where all the EcoField money went. Nick reaches over and turns up the television, where the Vice President announces her candidacy for the Presidency of the United States. Veronica comments that the amount of money missing from EcoField could “run a small country.” On TV, a news reporter states that the Vice President has the largest campaign war chest in history and is therefore the odds-on favorite to win her party’s nomination. Nick turns back to Veronica. “Maybe not a small country…maybe this one…”

Outside the cabin, Quinn stands hidden in the trees, watching Nick and Veronica through the windows.




Prison Break
Episode 111 - And Then There Was 7
11/14/2005

Another day begins in the grim confines of Fox River. Michael walks over to his cell’s sink, splashes water on his face and takes a deep breath.

He flashes back to a few months ago. Inside a high-end jewelry store, Michael removes his sunglasses and indicates, “That one.” A salesman removes a platinum wedding ring from the display case. The salesmen comments, “She’s a lucky woman.” Michael holds the ring up and observes it. “Yes. She is.”

Back in the present, Sara shines a flashlight into Michael’s eyes during his infirmary visit. Michael notices that she still has the origami flower he made for her. She claims she kept it because she’s a “pack rat,” but Michael smiles as he sarcastically notes the lack of clutter in the doctor’s office. The joking takes on a flirtatious tone as Sara notes, “Well, you should see my apartment.” Michael replies, “Haven’t even had our first date and already you’re inviting me in. And here I thought you were a nice girl.” Sara puts a stethoscope to Michael’s chest and asks him to breathe in and exhale. The two lock eyes, the sexual tension between them escalating until Katie, Sara’s nurse, interrupts their intimate silence. “Sara, we’re backing up out here.” Sara snaps back to reality and leaves the office to get Michael’s insulin shot. As soon as she’s gone, Michael removes two tubes of toothpaste from his pockets and squats near the grate on the floor. Michael squeezes the Copper Sulfate and Phosphoric Acid into the drain. When that’s done, he stands up and looks into out the window. His eyes follow the telephone wire hanging over the yard and then down to a pair of C.O.s walking their rounds. He focuses on a section of the grass directly underneath the infirmary.

Frustrations are running high in the cabin. Veronica’s fear for their safety is increasing and she notes that all she wants is to free Lincoln. Nick tells her there are now larger issues to deal with besides Lincoln. While exonerating Lincoln is what prompted their involvement, the situation has escalated and there is more at stake now. The Vice President used millions of dollars from Ecofield research grants to fund her campaign for the Presidency. This battle no longer ends with saving Lincoln Burrows. But Veronica tells him that for her, it does. Nick walks off, fed up with Veronica.

Outside the cabin, Quinn looks in from his hiding spot among the trees. He raises a piece of sandpaper and begins to press it hard against his face, scraping a large section of his cheek.

Inside the guards’ room, on P.I., the team furthers their progress digging the hole. Abruzzi orders C-Note to stop working in the hole and to switch with T-Bag. T-Bag can’t pass up a chance to take a racially motivated verbal stab at C-Note and the two get in each other’s face. Lincoln plays referee and steps in before the two can throw any punches. C-Note wonders aloud why Abruzzi hasn’t had to do any of the hard work yet. Abruzzi tells him it’s because he’s handling things on the outside. That makes him management. C-Note isn’t entirely pleased with this structuring of authority, but before he can do anything, Sucre swings in through the front door and tells the gang that a C.O. is headed their way. They quickly take their positions and cover the hole in what has become a well practiced dance. The C.O. walks in and looks around until he sees Michael. “Scofield. Move it. It’s time for your conjugal. Your wife is here.” The rest of the crew, including Lincoln, share a confused look, but Michael just coolly walks outside.

Bellick stands in the frisk room, eyeing the mysterious “Mrs. Scofield” with interest, but she doesn’t respond to his attempts at small talk. A female C.O. gives the all clear and Mrs. Scofield, a.k.a. Nika, walks by him. Bellick asks, “She look familiar to you?” But the female C.O. hasn’t seen her before.

Nika walks into the conjugal room where Michael is waiting. He smiles when he sees her; there’s warmth and compassion between the two. Michael notices she’s still wearing the ring he gave her. Nika responds that she’s worried about him and wears it as a reminder. Nika asks if there’s anything more she can do to help, but Michael asks only what they agreed on. She nods, reaches under her blouse and removes a gold credit card. She hands it Michael, wondering, “Why would you need a credit card in prison?”

Sara and Katie walk down the stairs of the infirmary building discussing the latest budget cuts. The governor has taken additional money away from the prison’s health care, and Katie comments sarcastically, “Maybe he thinks he cuts enough, they won’t be able to afford you.” When they reach the bottom, Sara turns down the hall and halts in surprise when she sees Michael embracing Nika. Nika gives Michael a kiss on the cheek and leaves. Sara, stunned, quickly walks the opposite way.

Back in the frisk room, Michael endures the post-conjugal frisk procedure as Bellick looks on, shooting disrespectful remarks Michael’s way in an effort to provoke him about his wife. Bellick goes so far as to taunt Michael with, “Damn if I don’t recognize her from somewhere. Maybe she visits some other con? Killing two birds with one bone, catch my drift?” The other C.O. finishes his search of Michael. Michael keeps his mouth shut. He grabs his clothes and walks out of the room.

T-Bag swings his shovel in the hole while the rest of the men pour the concrete rubble behind the newly lain sheetrock. T-Bag continues to bait C-Note. C-Note’ retort, claiming that T-Bag has won the “redneck trifecta.” Earns a laugh from the entire crew. T-Bag throws down his sledgehammer in frustration. “You know, it vexes me that somehow I’m made out to be the bad guy in the room. Not like the rest of y’all are incarcerated for stealing Girl Scout cookies.” Abruzzi notes, “None of us murdered the Girl Scouts in the process.” Sucre jumps in the front door again with a giant grin on his face, he tells them that Michael is coming back from his conjugal. Sucre asks Michael why he never said anything about a wife, but Michael silences Sucre with a sternly toned, “Later.” The others have concerns, too. Upset that Michael scheduled a conjugal in the middle of P.I., Abruzzi asks, “While we’re digging this hole, what are you doing?” Michael smiles. “Goin’ shopping.”

Back in their cell, Sucre makes sure the coast is clear and Michael reveals the credit card from the stitching in his jacket. Sucre warns Michael that if the guards catch him with that, he’ll be done for. But Michael isn’t worried, they won’t be catching him with a credit card. Michael peels the backing off the credit card leaving only a piece of white plastic with a magnetic strip. Michael flashes back to his apartment where several instruction manuals to security systems are spread across the desk. Michael places a white card into machine that allows him to program a pin number onto the card. When the programming is complete, he applies stickers to the card to make it look like a credit card.

Back in the prison, Michael goes about his routine of surreptitiously climbing up through the catwalks. He makes his way until he reaches a door at the end of the hallway. Through the door’s window, he looks across the way to another door with a sign that reads, “RECEIVING AND DISCHARGE.” When the coast is clear, he opens to the door and removes the card from his pocket. He swipes it through a security device on the wall that resembles the device Michael studied in his flashback. The Receiving door pops open. Inside the room are rows upon rows of shelves, each one with labeled boxes on them. The boxes each contain the belongings of the inmates that were taken off of them the day they entered prison. Michael begins to scan the boxes, looking for his.

Veronica starts, hearing a knock on the cabin door. She walks into the living room and wakes Nick and LJ up. Before they can discuss what to do, a voice cries out from outside the door. “Help! Please! I was…I was in an accident!” Nick, Veronica and LJ whisper between them, trying to decide on a plan of action. Veronica finally convinces Nick and LJ to let the stranger in. Nick keeps his gun close to him and opens the door to find Quinn, bloodied and limping. He claims that he was in a massive car accident. Nick turns his back to get a medical kit and Quinn shoots Nick in his right shoulder. As Nick’s body lies motionless on the floor, Quinn tells a shocked LJ and Veronica, “No one’s going anywhere.”

Veronica’s eyes are wild with fear; her mouth is taped shut with duct tape. Across the room, LJ is bound in the same fashion. Quinn digs into Nick’s pockets, removes the pistol, then drags LJ into the bedroom and closes the door. Quinn slowly moves back to the couch and begins his interrogation of Veronica. “Do you know how many pints of blood the human body has? The answer is ten. Ten pints. And how many do you think prince charming over there on the floor has left? Eight? Going on seven?” Quinn tells Veronica that if she tells him everything they know about Lincoln’s case and anyone else they might have told about the findings, he might consider letting her go in time to save Nick. “You decide whose life is more valuable. The man waiting to die on death row... or the man wishing he’d die out in the woodshed.”

Hidden safely in the prison bowels, Michael begins going through the bag from Receiving and Discharge. As he removes the items from the bag. he flashes back to his first day at Fox River. As a C.O. recites the things he’s placing into Michael’s bag, Michael, in the present, sets them down on the floor of the bowels. “One suit, black. One pair of socks, black. One pair of shoes. Shoelaces. One small tape recorder. One gold watch.” Everything is there… except the gold watch. Michael crumples up the empty bag in frustration.

In the cabin bedroom, Quinn strips the tape off LJ’s mouth. In a very paternal manner, he promises LJ that he will gladly clean up this mess that LJ has made. Quinn goes on to ask if Lincoln, a convicted felon many times over, is a man worth dying for. If he’s a man worth putting Nick and Veronica’s lives on the line for. LJ refuses to give Quinn any information, so Quinn puts the tape back on LJ’s mouth and exits the room.

Walking along the yard’s fence line, Westmoreland tells Michael about his new cellmate. “Some new fish. Ran a bump and swipe on an off duty cop. Fast hands, faster mouth.” Then, speak of the devil, Tweener bounces towards them. Westmoreland introduces Michael to Tweener, who immediately asks to be part of P.I.. Michael tells him it’s full right now and Tweener, disappointed, heads off. Once Tweener’s out of earshot, Michael asks Westmoreland if he’s ever heard about things being stolen from Receiving and Discharge. Westmoreland laughs. “Bulls steal from the personals all the time.” Michael presses for more information, but Westmoreland wants to keep his nose clean of whatever Michael is up to. C.O. Patterson yells to Westmoreland from outside the fence, “Pope wants to see you.” Before Westmoreland walks away, he tells Michael that there is one C.O. who is a notorious thief.

C.O. Geary walks down the hall with a file in his hand, and Michael’s gold watch strapped to his left wrist. He hands the file to Bellick; inside is a copy of Michael’s marriage license. Bellick studies the file with relish. “Says here they got married the day before Scofield robbed that bank.” He wonders why Michael would do that.

Through the fence line of his pen, Lincoln worries about how long it’s been since his last communication from LJ and Veronica. Michael doesn’t respond; he trains his focus across the yard on Geary and the watch on his wrist.

Nick is propped up in the woodshed, a pool of blood on the ground. Quinn sits next to him, still trying to glean exactly what evidence Nick and Veronica have gathered. Nick’s fingers slowly creep towards a loose log on the ground. Quinn notices and tells Nick that the bullet damaged the muscles in his shoulder and there’s no way he’ll be able to move his arm enough to hit Quinn with the log. Nick makes his move anyway and immediately screams in pain. Quinn smiles. “Come on, Nick. Mr. Project Justice. We both know why you’re really here... don’t we? And it ain’t to save Lincoln Burrows’ life.”

Michael walks into Westmoreland and Tweener’s cell where he finds Tweener rapping out a song he has written about his experience in Fox River. Michael asks Tweener if he wants in on P.I. work. Tweener says of course and Michael asks for a favor. He knows Tweener has fast hands and hopes he might be able to steal the watch back from Geary. Michael fills Tweener in on the type of watch. Tweener reveals that it’ll be a hard swipe, but that doesn’t mean he can’t do the job. “That just means I’m gonna have to get whimsical on this ficky.”

Westmoreland enters Pope’s office and sits down. Pope removes his glasses and heaves a sigh. “Your daughter is very sick, she’s got esophageal cancer,” Pope grimly tells Westmoreland. His daughter only has a few weeks to live, but the Department of Corrections won’t let Charles see her because they feel he might still be a flight risk. Westmoreland is stunned, and Pope continues to say that Westmoreland will only be granted a furlough to see her at her funeral. Westmoreland can’t believe this logic. “You’re telling me I’ve got to wait until she dies before I can see her?”

Michael sits in the infirmary. Nurse Katie enters and begins to prepare Michael’s shot. As Michael looks to the infirmary waiting room where Sara averts his gaze, Katie explains that she will be taking care of him today. Suddenly, there’s a commotion in the hallway. Katie and Sara greet Geary, who brings Tweener in on a gurney. There’s food all over his chest and he appears to be having a seizure. Then, in the middle of the chaos, Tweener locks eyes with Michael through a window and gives a wink and a smile. Michael looks to Geary, his wrist now bare. Michael smiles.

Veronica has moved her chair closer to a wood burning stove inside the cabin. She holds the plastic cuffs that bind her hands as close as she can, hoping to melt them. When she hears the bolt on the door, she quickly moves away from the furnace, and Quinn enters. Quinn begins his interrogation anew, telling her that it’s her fault that people around her are dying. “If you had just minded your own business, people like Leticia Barris wouldn’t have a mouthful of maggots right about now. Your fiancé wouldn’t be lying in his apartment waiting for the smell of his rotting corpse to let the neighbors know something has gone horribly wrong.” He stands and grabs an oil lantern from the wall, threatening to light her on fire if she doesn’t cooperate. He unscrews the cap, but before he can turn back, Veronica stands and smashes the chair against Quinn’s face. Quinn collapses to the ground.

Veronica charges into LJ’s room and frees him from the chair. The two scramble into the wood shed to find a barely conscious Nick. Veronica grabs Nick’s car keys and throws them to LJ who turns and sprints to get the car started. He jumps in the driver’s seat, but the ignition wires have been ripped out. BANG! The rear window shatters. LJ looks back to see Quinn standing 20 yards away, gun raised. LJ takes off into the woods.

Westmoreland taps the gold watch on the door or Michael’s cell, “A gift from my cellmate.” Westmoreland then tells Michael, “I want in.” Michael tells Westmoreland in a measured tone that everyone involved in the escape is bringing something to the plan. Westmoreland offers to bring money. Michael replies, “I seem to remember several conversations that ended with ‘I am not D.B. Cooper.’” Westmoreland claims that he was lying. But Michael says he’s already researched Westmoreland’s earlier claim that he was in jail during the time of the Cooper hijacking and found it to be true. Westmoreland informs Michael, “Turns out my father and I shared more than a weakness for easy money. We also shared a name. Charles Westmorland senior was the one locked up that day. Now do you want the money or not?” Michael doesn’t respond, not quite ready to believe a man who has no proof other than his word.

In his cell, Michael makes sure the coast is clear, then begins to assemble a strange device using the gold watch, the shoelaces, the black socks and the mini tape recorder.

The dig continues inside the guard room. This time T-Bag is harping on Sucre and the laziness of “the Latino population.” Sucre notes that the lazy people aren’t the ones working two jobs; the lazy ones are the people at home collecting unemployment. T-Bag turns to C-Note, “You gonna let him talk about your people like that?” But C-Note doesn’t take the bait. He simply walks up to T-Bag and warns, “We may be a team in here. But just so you know, it’s every man for himself.”

Out on yard P.I., Michael sneaks away from his work group over to a spot beneath the infirmary window. He squats down and digs a small hole. He slips the tape recorder device from his pocket and puts it in the hole, but before he can finish burying it, a C.O. barks orders for him to return to the rest of the group. As Michael walks away, he looks back and sees a piece of the device poking out above ground.

LJ and Veronica each run through the woods, trying in vain to find the other. Veronica stumbles into a clearing. Quinn emerges from the woods, gun trained on her. As he walks towards her, he explains that the Russian mafia doesn’t kill their target, but kills their friends and loved ones instead. “Speaking of people you love... what exactly is Michael Scofield doing in Fox River anyhow?” Veronica tries to keep Quinn walking towards her because between them is a concealed well opening. Quinn sees it, amused at Veronica’s feeble attempt to lure him into the well. But mid-sentence, LJ explodes from the woods and shoves Quinn from behind, sending Quinn down the well.

Michael paces in his cell. In the ground beneath the infirmary, the watch strikes ten. This triggers the mini tape recorder to begin recording. Above the device, a couple of guards walk over it, and narrowly miss stepping on it.

Bellick sits at his desk, holding Nika’s file open and looking closely at her photo. He looks up and smiles.

Later that night, Bellick struts into a strip club. A scantily clad woman greets Bellick by first name. He nods and continues into the club as an announcer invites patrons to welcome Jasmine to the stage. Bellick halts as Jasmine emerges. A smile spreads on his face as he finds what he came in search of: Nika, a.k.a Mrs. Scofield.

Quinn looks up out of the well and makes a call on his cell phone. He barks at Kellerman, “Come get me! I’m in New Glarus!”

Nika strolls to a dark corner of the club where Bellick is sitting. She offers Bellick a private dance but he wants to chat. He asks if her husband knows about her working there, but Nika claims she’s not married. Bellick leans forward. “I hope you’re lying for the sake of titillation, otherwise your little visit to Fox River this morning would have been breaking the law, Mrs. Scofield.” Nika, a bit rattled, says that it’s better for business if she says she’s not married. Bellick isn’t interested and wants to know more about what Michael wanted in exchange for her green card. She continues to mislead him, but Bellick threatens to have her deported. Nika cracks, saying that all he wanted from her was a credit card. She gets up and walks away, disgusted. Bellick mulls this piece of information.

In the chapel, Westmoreland sits next to Michael in a pew. Westmoreland whispers, “Dorothy Andrews Elston Kabis. United States Treasurer in 1971, the year of the DB Cooper hijacking. DI19258A, first number in the series of bills used for the ransom drop.” Michael, still unimpressed, tells Westmoreland, “All that proves is that you did the research – same as me.” Westmoreland stands up and passes Michael a Bible before walking out. Inside the Bible, Michael finds a one hundred dollar bill with a serial number that matches the one Westmoreland just recited.

In the yard, Michael digs up the device. Sara calls to him from the other side of the fence. “So you’re married.” Michael tries continue his flirtation from the other day, but Sara cuts him off. Sara wants to know all of Michael’s secrets, but Michael stands silent. She tells him that being a prison doctor, she expects to get attention from inmates. But she’s enjoying it with Michael, and that’s dangerous. There are too many questions surrounding Michael. She can’t trust him and therefore she demands that all their interactions from now on remain strictly doctor/patient. As Sara leaves, Michael tells her, “The questions you have about me, there are answers.” Sara just keeps on walking.

“Quinn!” Kellerman yells as he and Hale approach the well. Quinn calls back and asks what took them so long. Hale explains that they tried to call him to get an exact location, but they couldn’t get through. Quinn apologizes, revealing that his phone’s battery had died. Quinn attempts to reconcile with Kellerman, but Kellerman is not one to forgive a grudge. He drags a large piece of wood over the top of the well. Quinn begs for Kellerman to stop, but his cries soon become muffled. Hale tells Kellerman that they can’t leave him in the well. Kellerman responds, “He’s the only one who knows we don’t have the Burrows kid. The only one.” When Hale tries to argue, Kellerman threatens to put Hale in the well too.

In their cell, Sucre looks on as Michael pulls out the mini recorder, checks his watch and pushes play. There’s nothing but the sound of wind as Sucre paces the cell. After a seemingly unending silence, the sound of keys jingling is picked up by the recorder. Michael explains the significance. “Footsteps. Guards’ footsteps. And eighteen minutes is how long we have between each time the guards pass underneath the infirmary window during their rounds at night.” Michael leans back, another item on his list checked off, “It means four days from now, on the night of the escape, we’ll have eighteen minutes to get the bars off the infirmary window, and get all seven of us across the wire and over the wall.” Sucre looks worried. Seven people over the wall in eighteen minutes. “Is that doable?” Michael answers, “Yes.” But doubt darkens his expression.

Inside the guard room, Michael stands off to the side. Lincoln approaches him and asks him what the problem is. Before Michael can answer, Sucre strikes the metal pipe that they’ve been working so hard to reach. The team sets aside their differences long enough to celebrate having taken one more step toward freedom. Lincoln presses Michael about what’s on his mind. Michael says there is good news and bad news. The good is that Westmoreland and his money are now part of the plan. The bad news, “I did the math. I figure it’s going to take at least five minutes to get the bars off the window in the infirmary. And two minutes each for us to make it across the wire and over the wall. We’ve only got eighteen minutes. We’ve got too many people. One of them has to go.”

Michael looks over the elated faces in the guards’ room, one of which will not be able to go on the escape.




Prison Break
Episode 112 - Odd Man Out
11/21/2005

Michael, five years younger, adjusts his tie in a streamlined office of an architecture firm overlooking the Chicago cityscape. The interviewer across the desk comments on Michael’s impressive resumé, then asks why Michael is interested in architecture. Michael speaks with a quiet passion about structure, design and function. The interviewer appears impressed in the young engineer in Michael and asks, “What about the future? Where do you see yourself in five years?”

Five years later (in present day), Michael crawls through Fox River’s old sewer tunnels. He locates the hiding place where he stashed his bag of belongings stolen from the Receiving and Discharge room. He pulls the black suit coat he wore in his job interview out of the bag, folds it under his arm and continues on his way. He encounters a pipe that shoots off to the left. Michael removes a single button from the jacket and throws it down the new pipe. The button clatters down the pipe’s gentle downward slope. Michael nods, then tosses the jacket down the pipe and slides down after it.

He emerges from the sloped pipe of the very bottom of a huge vertical drainpipe resembling a silo. Michael’s attention is straight up: eighteen feet above him, a slotted grate with light streaming in from above. Michael kneels on the ground and tears open his suit jacket. From inside the stitching, he removes a thick nylon rope and a heavy-duty plastic bag. He puts the suit in the bag and knots one end of the rope around it, creating a bundle. Then, he stuffs the whole bundle into a small metal porthole in the base of the silo wall. He looks up again at the grate, well beyond his reach.

T-Bag, dressed for P.I., stands at the phones in the yard having a light-hearted conversation. When he looks up, he locks eyes with Abruzzi, who’s walking towards the guards’ room for P.I.. T-Bag squirms, then whispers into the phone, “ But, uh, things are getting pretty tense, like they fixin’ to collide. You know what I mean, Jimmy? There’s a potential, situation.”

Michael and Lincoln carry tools across the yard. Michael tells his brother that he found their access to the infirmary building, but he’ll need extra time to find out how they’ll get up a twenty foot vertical drain pipe without a ladder. He needs to skip P.I. to do it. It’s dangerous to leave P.I. and risk getting busted by the guards, but they both know that Michael has no choice. Michael then reiterates the conundrum they face; all seven men involved in the escape will be unable to make it over the wall in the eighteen minutes between the guards’ yard rounds. They turn the corner and halt to discover C-Note leaning up against the wall. “Mind if I share that with the rest of the class?”

Inside the guards’ room, C-Note continues, “ Apparently, College Boy here did some math, and figured out we got one too many clowns in the car. One of us is in here digging, but his seat ain’t guaranteed.” Michael can’t deny this. They need to cut someone from the escape. Sucre throws his shovel down. He’s not digging if he’s not going. Abruzzi mutters that they all know who shouldn’t be included. And as if on cue, the door opens and T-Bag walks in. He senses the conspiracy against him and announces an insurance plan that cements his spot on the escape. “I called up my man on the outside, and I told him our plan. And I told him, in all likelihood, I’ll see him next week.” T-Bag continues, saying that if his contact doesn’t hear from him five minutes before the escape happens and twenty minutes afterwards, the contact will blow the whistle on the entire escape.

Exiting P.I., Abruzzi assures Lincoln that despite T-Bag’s announcement, Abruzzi has plans of his own. Abruzzi will take care of T-Bag’s man on the outside as well as T-Bag himself. At the back of the line, C-Note falls into step with Sucre, hinting that among the escapees, their positions are the most precarious. Michael needs Abruzzi’s plane and Westmoreland’s money, but Sucre is only involved because he was in the right cell at the right time. Sucre, however, trusts Michael. C-Note continues prodding, “Really? How much has he really told you, anyway?... He probably says, the less you know, the better, right?” C-Note leaves Sucre, telling him that he’s happy to break out with Sucre before the rest of the group goes.

On the walk back, Michael turns around and sees a squat yellow hydrant with a wheel crank jutting out from the ground in a remote corner. But Tweener’s sudden arrival interrupts his thought. Tweener asks when he’ll be let on P.I.; Michael had promised to look into it if Tweener stole his watch from Geary. But Michael tells him that it can’t happen right now. Tweener walks away, frustrated and alienated by yet another inmate in Fox River.

Quinn’s stolen car pulls up to the emergency entrance of the New Glarus Methodist Hospital. LJ drives while Veronica keeps pressure on Nick’s bullet wound. Nick has lost a lot of blood, but he’s lucid enough to tell her that if he is admitted to the hospital with a gunshot, the doctors will call the police and blow their cover. “They can’t find the bullet,” he says and begs Veronica to dig it out of the wound. Shocked, but scared, Veronica reaches towards his bloody shoulder.

Alone in the infirmary before his appointment with Sara, Michael jams a mop handle into the grate where he has been pouring corrosive chemicals. The force makes a small hole in the pipe below. Michael produces an origami crane from his pocket and drops it down the grate. Michael watches the crane tumble through the air and flutter into a room below. Michael turns as Bellick’s voice booms from the entrance of the infirmary.“Where’s Scofield?” Michael jumps up, puts the mop back and takes a seat in a chair just in time for Bellick to saunter into the exam room. Bellick informs Michael that he has just searched his cell, but couldn’t find Michael’s credit card anywhere. Michael remains stoic as Bellick explains that he learned of the credit card’s existence from Nika, Michel’s wife. Sara enters as Bellick continues to needle Michael. “ Whaddaya call a girl who gets married to a felon to get into the United States? Why’d she hafta come here anyway, no strip clubs in Whazistan?” Sara instructs Bellick that her infirmary is not a place for him to perform an interrogation. Bellick objects, but complies with her request. Once he leaves, Michael pleads for her understanding as she prepares his insulin. “He’s had it out for me since the day I got here.” Sara doesn’t respond; she simply preps his arm for the shot. Michael tries to go into greater depth as to why he married Nika. She curtly tells him he doesn’t need to explain anything to her. Michael exhibits an uncharacteristic vulnerability when he softly tells her, “But I want to.” Sara avoids his eyes and leaves the room.

As the inmates file back into gen pop, T-Bag shadows Westmoreland. He tells Westmoreland that there’s no way a man who’s been locked up for so long is going to be able to survive on the other side of the bricks. “ World’s a whole different place, all scary now. They got computer phones, boobies made of silicone. You wouldn’t know what to do.” Westmoreland responds to T-Bag’s taunts with an old head’s grizzled readiness for a fight. He shoves T-Bag back, hard, until a guard warns them both to stand down. As Westmoreland walks away, T-Bag growls, “Bow out, cowboy. I’m not gonna warn you no more.”

Abruzzi sits in his cell with his back against the bars. His gaze is fixed on the upper, back corner of his cell. He’s transfixed, but there appears to be nothing there but some amber-colored water damage. A passing inmate quickly tosses a note onto the bunk next to Abruzzi. Abruzzi scans the message, his eyes drifting back up to the water mark.

Abruzzi crosses the yard and passes a note to Lincoln through the fenceline. “Records from the phone in the yard. James Bagwell, lives down in Gary.” James, T-Bag’s cousin, is T-Bag’s insurance policy. Abruzzi tells Lincoln the plan is to lock James up in a moving van; they’ll release him once the escape is complete. Abruzzi assures Lincoln that they do it all the time; the guy will be fine. Lincoln asks what that means for T-Bag. Smiling, Abruzzi explains that T-Bag is no longer a threat. T-Bag sits on the bleachers out of earshot, but he follows Lincoln and Abruzzi with his eyes as they discuss his fate.

Laundry is strung across a sagging front porch. In the cluttered yard, James “Jimmy” Bagwell places his son on a rusty rocking horse, then reaches for the beer can on the front porch. An older model van pulls up in front of the house and a large man in a suit, known as Maggio, gets out of the driver’s side. He tells Jimmy that he has a delivery for him, and Jimmy unsuspectingly approaches the van.

LJ and Veronica wait outside Nick’s hospital room. A doctor takes Veronica aside and informs her that Nick has lost a lot of blood and is currently in surgery. While they talk, LJ flips through a newspaper and sees a notice for the funeral services being held for his mother, who was shot by Agent Hale. The doctor, knowing that Nick’s wound was caused by a gunshot, asks Veronica what happened. Veronica maintains her false story. “He was in the garage, under his car…” The doctor explains that Nick’s injuries are serious enough that he has to be admitted. When Veronica turns back to LJ, he is gone.

Agent Kellerman calls Hale, who is driving through a cemetery. Kellerman tells Hale to be patient; they need to make sure they take care of Nick, Veronica and LJ today. Hale hangs up, steps out of the car and looks at the small group of mourners gathered at a tearful graveside service for LJ’s mother.

From the yard phones, Abruzzi calls Maggio for a status report on Jimmy Bagwell. Maggio reluctantly tells Abruzzi the news: the job went bad. While he was trying to get him into the van, Jimmy got paranoid and pulled a gun. Maggio had no choice but to kill him. This news hits Abruzzi hard, but it gets worse when Maggio admits he also killed Jimmy’s son. It was an accident; Jimmy used the kid as a shield. Abruzzi reels from this news, expressing an uncharacteristic interest in the details of the child victim. He moves the phone away from his face in a combination of disbelief and disgust.

Sucre is escorted into visitation where he is delighted to discover Maricruz waiting for him. She came to give him important news: she’s pregnant with his baby. Sucre lights up at the thought of the two of them having a family, but Maricruz says there’s more. Hector has asked her to marry him. Sucre demands that she say no, but Maricruz is torn between true love or having stable support for her and the baby. She confesses to being scared; her mother insists that being a single mother is the hardest possible job a woman can have. Sucre promises that he’ll be getting out very soon, sooner than she thinks. But Maricruz is unconvinced. The bells rings and visitation ends. Sucre tells Maricruz that he loves her. As Maricruz backs away, tears in her eyes, she responds, “But you’ll learn to love again, right?”

The mourners have departed and Lisa’s casket sits alone, adorned with flowers. LJ drives Quinn’s car into the cemetery. Hale sees him, immediately calling Kellerman to report, “The kid is here.” Kellerman instructs Hale to follow LJ back to Nick and Veronica. LJ walks to his mother’s casket and breaks down. Hale can only sit in his car and watch the suffering he has wrought.

Michael preps his bed to make it look like he’s asleep so he can dive back into the walls. Sucre sits up, the paranoia C-Note triggered rearing its head. Sucre wants to know Michael’s plan, but Michael only replies, “It’s complicated. I can’t explain. But if it works, you’ll see soon enough.” Sucre isn’t satisfied and he prods Michael. Michael insists that he needs Sucre to stay behind and keep look-out. Sucre watches Michael prepare to disappear into the bowels of the prison, his faith in his cellmate shaken.

Abruzzi still stares at the corner of his cell where a faintly discernable image continues to captivate his attention. On the tier, a note tied to a piece of paper is launched from the next cell. Abruzzi’s cellmate reaches out, removes the note, then reads it. He informs Abruzzi, ” We’re all lined up for tomorrow. Where do you want him?” But Abruzzi is transfixed by what he sees in the corner of his cell. His cellmate restates his question. “Tomorrow. Where do you want T-Bag, the shop or the shed?” Abruzzi coarsely replies that he doesn’t care, he just wants it done. Abruzzi looks back to the corner of his cell, where the water damage begins to take on the appearance of the face of Jesus.

Michael crawls back to the vertical drainpipe. This time, he turns his attention to an old crusty pipe protruding from the bottom of the wall. He grabs the wheel valve on the pipe and turns it with some effort. Momentarily, a small trickle of water comes out. Michael smiles.

It is suddenly daytime. And in the cavernous silence of a church funeral, Abruzzi stands and approaches a child-sized coffin. Abruzzi looks down upon the face of the little boy in the coffin. Suddenly, the boy’s eyes spring open. Abruzzi bolts upright from his dream and looks to the corner of his cell. The face of Jesus, even more vivid now, stares back at him.

Veronica stands over Nick in the hospital room as LJ walks in. She turns, relieved to see him, and wraps her arms around him. Unbeknownst to them, Hale witnesses the reunion from the hospital hallway. LJ is weakened and tearful. He says, clinging to Veronica, “She didn’t do anything. She didn’t deserve this.” When Veronica looks to the doorway, Hale is gone. Outside the room, Hale rests his head against the wall, his face troubled by the pain he’s witnessing.

The cons line up along the tier when an inmate known as Trumpets stops C-Note, “Here you go man, these were seriously hard to get.” C-Note looks at the items: a stack of postcards, all from Baghdad. C-Note smiles and walks off.

Outside T-Bag’s cell, Pope apologizes for keeping T-Bag from his time in the yard. An anxious T-Bag wonders what the matter is. Pope breaks the news about his cousin. T-Bag nearly collapses in grief.

Abruzzi sits on his bunk in his cell, Reverend Mailor beside him. Abruzzi wants to know if he has been “chosen.” The Reverend explains, “Often the Lord appears when you are in particular need of forgiveness. Maybe that’s what’s happening right now." Abruzzi’s eyes open wide and he flashes back to the brutal acts he has committed: murdering the men in Fibonacci’s warehouse, blinding Gus with the shattered light bulb and cutting off Michael’s toes. Abruzzi is moved and frightened by this manifestation. Reverend Mailor takes this opportunity to remind Abruzzi that it’s never too late to repent. Reverend Mailor reads from the Bible, “Revelations chapter three, verse twenty. Jesus said, ‘Behold, stand at the door and knock, if any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come into him.’” As Reverend Mailor reads, his eyes follow Abruzzi’s gaze to the corner of the cell. Reverend Mailor just sees some water damage.

Sucre walks next to C-Note in gen pop, telling him what Michael was able to do underneath the infirmary the night before, traveling through the pipe that runs under the guards’ room. The two bump fists in a fraternal alliance.

Captain Bellick and C.O. Geary walk along the yard fence. Geary eyes Tweener and tells Bellick that he’s the inmate who stole his gold watch. Bellick knowingly asks him who the watch belonged to in the first place. Geary’s answer of “Michael Scofield” instantly triggers Bellick’s increasing suspicions.

As the P.I. crew rakes the yard, Michael eyes the yellow hydrant he saw earlier. Westmoreland walks over, and Michael asks him to keep a look out. Michael moves to the hydrant and grabs the wheel at the top. He tries to turn it, but the wheel just doesn’t budge. Michael grabs his rake, and slips the handle through the spokes of the wheel. With one more good push, the wheel spins freely and water begins to rush into the eighteen foot silo below. Since Michael had plugged the drain with his suit bundle, the cylinder rapidly fills with water. Michael keeps an eye on his watch while Westmoreland keeps an eye on the yard. Michael’s stopwatch counts down from 3 minutes and 17 seconds as the flood waters rise. C.O. Patterson blows his whistle and calls the guys back in from raking. Westmoreland issues a warning cough to signal to Michael to come back. But Michael must wait until the clock runs down, allowing the water to reach the necessary height. With three seconds left, Michael spins the wheel and shuts off the flow of water, which stops only inches below the grating. Michael steps quickly back into line next to Westmoreland with a triumphant smile on his face.

In his cell, Abruzzi quietly recites verses from his Bible. He closes the book, repeating the last passage and reveals a crude shiv. He slips the blade under his wristband and covers it with his sleeve.

Three of Abruzzi’s men jump T-Bag and drag him into the tool shed.

Sucre sits at the desk in the cell, making a list of names for his unborn child. Michael asks what he’s doing and Sucre coldly says, “Nothing.” Michael pulls a rope across the cell, the tacit signal for Sucre to hang his laundry so Michael can go behind the walls. Sucre wants to know when exactly they’re getting out, but Michael only responds, “As soon as possible.” Sucre demands more. Why does Abruzzi know the exact time of the planned escape, but he doesn’t? Michael is surprised by Sucre’s sudden distrust. Michael insists that any information he keeps from Sucre is for Sucre’s own good. Sucre bites his lip hearing C-Note suspicions verified. Michael tells Sucre, “I need to go. I’ll meet you in P.I..”

Bellick sits behind his desk, shoving a hamburger into his mouth as he talks. Across from him is Tweener, looking nervous and hungry. Bellick tells Tweener that he knows he stole Geary’s watch and there’s no use in denying it. The punishment for such a crime can range from getting thrown into the SHU to getting a couple years added onto a sentence. Bellick tells Tweener that the watch incident can be forgotten if Tweener is willing to be Bellick’s eyes and ears around Scofield. Bellick removes another burger from the bag. He offers it to Tweener as an unofficial handshake on their agreement. “What do you say, kid? You want a burger or you want to go to the SHU?” After a moment’s hesitation, Tweener reaches out and takes the burger.

Back at his home, Hale speaks to his wife, Allison. Hale tells her that maybe they should think about moving west to Arizona or New Mexico. Allison is surprised by Hale’s sudden whimsy. Hale tells her he’s just tired of being on the road and being away from his family. She continues to resist his strange impulse to leave town until an urgency overcomes his voice and he moves closer to her. “We need to go.” Allison realizes immediately what her husband is trying to tell her. “You’re in trouble, aren’t you?”

In the guards’ room, Sucre hammers away at the top of the pipe from inside the hole. He’s almost through, but he’s wiped out. He hands the shovel to C-Note. Lincoln and Westmoreland change spots as look outs.

Michael works his way through the bowels to the drainpipe, which is now flooded. He strips off his clothes and dives into the water. He feels around the walls and finds the rope he affixed to the plastic bag. He wraps it around his hand and swims upward to the grating. With his head above water, he pushes his way up, moves the grate aside and finds himself inside a utility room. Once he’s sitting in the room, he pulls the rope. The plastic bag dislodges from the porthole in the wall and the water drains from the room below him. Then he walks across the room and finds the origami crane that he dropped from the infirmary. He climbs up a shelf and looks through a corroded hole above him to see Sara washing her hands. Michael has completed the route to the infirmary.

The phone rings next to Nick’s bed. Veronica answers. She asks who is on the other end and the voice says it doesn’t matter. Hale stands in his home, on the phone. He tells Veronica, “I have some information you may be interested in. Information that will lead to the exoneration of Lincoln Burrows.” He tells her to meet him later that night at the Highland Café.

Abruzzi ’s thugs have T-Bag’s wrists bound with duct tape and are working him over. Abruzzi enters and calls them off, “Leave us alone.” They toss the bloodied T-Bag on a table and leave as Abruzzi produces the metal shiv. T-Bag begs for his life, but Abruzzi is consumed with his righteous cause. He looms over T-Bag, announcing that he is just an emissary delivering justice on T-Bag for all the suffering he has caused. T-Bag begs for Abruzzi’s mercy. Abruzzi gives T-Bag a choice. “You want to live, you do it here, in Fox River. You forget you ever met us.” T-Bag, mind racing, admits he’d never make in the real world. He gives Abruzzi his word that he will drop out of the escape. T-Bag collapses into Abruzzi’s chest, and Abruzzi lets him fall to the floor. He conceals the shiv and turns away, commenting that Jesus has blessed them both. T-Bag, springs to his feet and pulls a razor blade from inside his mouth. T-Bag replies, “Speaking of Jesus… say hi to him for me.” T-Bag slices his razor deep into Abruzzi’s throat. Blood splatters across the wall and window as T-Bag rises and exits, leaving Abruzzi on the floor, clutching his neck with a pool of blood around him.

C-Note takes one more good swing at the pipe and breaks through.

Michael, climbing through the bowels, sees the dirt fall only feet in front of him.

Lincoln sticks his head in the guards’ room and warns the team of the approaching bulls. Westmoreland, C-Note and Sucre quickly try to cover the hole, but, shorthanded, they need more time. Westmoreland tells Lincoln he needs to stall. Geary makes a move to pass Lincoln after telling Lincoln to get back inside. Lincoln tells Geary to hold on a second, but Geary insists on bringing Lincoln back to the guards’ room. Knowing that if Geary enters the room before the hole is hidden, the entire escape will be blown, Lincoln punches Geary in the face. More C.O.s rush toward the scuffle.

Once the noise outside subsides, Sucre and C-Note pull up the rug and let Michael into the room. With a smile on his face, he looks at the guys. “Well, we leave tonight.” But then he sees the concern on their faces. Michael asks, “Where’s my brother?” Westmoreland can barely look at Michael as he says, “We’ve got a big problem.”

Outside the guards’ room, Lincoln is dragged away by two C.O.s to solitary confinement. By doing the only thing he could think of to save his brother, Lincoln might have just doomed his own chances of escape.




Prison Break
Episode 113 - End of the Tunnel
11/28/2005

The slow and labored thumping of a heartbeat pulses. Abruzzi strains to remain conscious as Sara pushes him across the yard in a stretcher. Sara presses a towel against the wound in his neck to help stem the flow of blood, meanwhile urging him to stay with her and keep breathing.

A medical helicopter roars over the prison yard and sets down to meet the gurney on the lawn. Michael, C-Note, Westmoreland and Sucre sprint to the fence in their P.I. jumpsuits and watch in shock as Abruzzi is loaded onto the helicopter.

Sara shouts over the sound of the whirling chopper blades, “He’s lost a lot of blood. He’s going hypovolemic!” Sara is worried that Abruzzi might not make the twenty minute flight to the hospital downtown, but there’s no other option. The EMT on board shouts back that they need to fly him to Chicago immediately. As the helicopter floats off the ground, Abruzzi looks out the window. The green prison yard fades to white.

T-Bag slips between Westmoreland and Sucre at the fence. “And then there were six,” he hisses. C-Note adds, “Far as I know, it ain’t six, it’s five.”

Lincoln falls to the ground after being forced into the SHU. C.O. Geary stands above Lincoln, striking his back with his baton. “Don’t you ever step up to me again,” Geary warns. After Geary exacts his revenge, he drags Lincoln into a dimly lit corridor towards an isolated cell and locks him behind a forbidding metal door.

Pope moves quickly through the yard, escorted by a couple of guards. Michael runs up to him from the other side of the fence and urgently asks to know where his brother is. Pope explains that Lincoln is in serious trouble for assaulting a C.O.. With only thirty-six hours until the execution, Lincoln has become desperate and will be kept in solitary confinement for everyone’s safety. Michael demands to see him, but Pope firmly reiterates that Michael cannot see Lincoln until his execution.

Sucre leans on the yard phones, unsuccessfully trying to get information about Abruzzi from a Chicago hospital. Sucre hangs up and walks over to Michael, C-Note, T-Bag and Westmoreland where tensions are mounting as the complications to the escape pile up. Michael informs them that they need to put the escape on hold because his plan has been changed, but the escape team, having taken on a momentum of its own, votes him down. Michael stands his ground and refuses to continue on until he’s figured out how to get Lincoln out. C-Note respects Michael’s concern for his brother, but he tells Michael, “You go to the tombs, you don’t get out. Not until they strap you up.” Plus, every day they wait is another day that the C.O.s could find the hole in their break room. C-Note, T-Bag and even Westmoreland are a unified front in their resolution to make their move that afternoon in P.I.. But Michael won’t go with them. C-Note quietly insists, “This train is leaving the station.”

Lincoln, in the darkness of his solitary cell, lights a single match and stares at the flame.

Michael sits at the desk in his cell, his head resting in his hands. Sucre levels with his cellmate about their situation. If the other guys make their break today, then the guards will tear Fox River apart until they find out how they did it. That will certainly lead the bulls right into their cell. Michael realizes that Sucre is thinking about joining the others. Sucre can only remind Michael about the baby that Maricruz is carrying. Michael lifts a rosary and fidgets with one of the ends on the cross. Sucre knows Michael doesn’t want to hear it, but Lincoln is getting strapped into that chair. And once he’s dead, Michael has another five years of time to serve in Fox River. But Sucre also understands that if he were Michael he couldn’t leave his brother in that position. “That’s the worst possible way to die.” Michael’s eyes drift down to the inside of his bicep and he runs his thumb over a tattoo of a gravestone.

Still recuperating in the hospital, Nicks hangs up the phone in a hopeful mood. He tells Veronica that he spoke to a friend who is a clerk at the Superior Court. If the informant Veronica is meeting has any evidence that might shed light onto Lincoln’s case, the clerk will be ready to file the necessary paperwork. Veronica then proposes that maybe they need to stop hiding and take what they have to the media. Nick wonders if Veronica is ready to show her face again. Veronica replies, “It’s the bottom of the ninth. What else are we going to do?”

C-Note picks up the yard phone, wraps a cloth around the receiver and dials a number. He takes a deep breath and waits for an answer. A little girl picks up, and C-Note replies, “Hey, it’s Daddy, baby girl!” His daughter, Dede, is excited to hear his voice and asks him about the camels. C-Note shoots a quick glance over his shoulder. He tells her the camels are fine and asks to speak to her mommy. C-Note’s wife, Kacee, picks up. “First Sargent Benjamin Miles Franklin, how are you?” C-Note lies to his wife, telling her that he’s been “driving trucks, eating dates, trying to keep the sand out of my eyes.” She picks up a postcard from Iraq off the counter, glances at it and asks, “What’s this about you coming home soon?” C-Note tells her that he’ll be coming within the week. C-Note then asks to speak to Kacee’s brother, Darius. When the coast is clear, Darius asks if Fox River is as bad as everyone says. C-Note tells his brother-in-law that he needs a favor from him, then cryptically asks how many people his SUV holds.

Michael leans against the bars of his cell, eying the tier below. He quietly mutters, “Okay.” Sucre jumps up and asks what his plan is for Lincoln. Michael simply asks if Sucre has a razor blade.

Moments later, Michael sterilizes the razor blade by holding it over the flame of a cigarette lighter. He rolls up his sleeve to reveal the gravestone tattoo again. He looks at the ceiling, takes a deep breath, and presses the edge of the blade into his skin, cutting along a line drawn under the gravestone. Sucre winces as he witnesses this self-mutilation. When Michael finishes making the cut he rubs his finger over his skin until a small bead-shaped object emerges from the incision. He pinches a small black pill between his bloody fingers.

The protests to save Lincoln’s life have started outside Fox River and the press is there to cover it.

Lincoln, still in solitary, lights another match and prays quietly.

Michael and Reverend Mailor kneel at Michael’s bunk and also pray. The Reverend assures Michael that the Lord hears their prayers on Lincoln’s behalf. If Lincoln accepts the Lord, the Reverend assures Michael, he’ll be “free of this cage” forever. Michael’s grief seems genuine as he quietly asks the Reverend to deliver his rosary to his brother and to say it was from him. The Reverend gladly agrees.

Sara cleans the cut on Michael’s bicep. He tells her that he’s grateful she has been there to take care of him and wonders if maybe things would have been different for them in another life. Sara ignores his musings, curtly reminding him, “I won’t be that woman, Michael.” Michael just asks her to think about it, and thanks her again for all she’s done for him. Sara asks, “Why does it feel like you’re saying good-bye to me?” Michael replies that you never really know what day is going to be your last. Nurse Katie calls from the hallway to say they’re getting backed up. Sara says she’s sorry about his brother and she moves to leave, but Michael reaches out and gently takes her hand. He holds her hand, and her gaze, for a lingering moment before walking out of the infirmary. When the room is empty, a janitor slips in to refill some supplies and clean the counter. He walks to a garbage can located near the grate where Michael had been dumping corrosive chemicals. The janitor eyes the grate briefly, then turns and leaves.

Michael checks his watch; it’s almost 4pm. Sucre whispers behind him, “This is it, bro.” Sucre turns around to offer a hand, but Michael moves to hug him. “Good luck to both of us,” Sucre whispers. Bellick enters the wing and calls out, “P.I.! Let’s do it!”

T-Bag slides up along side Michael on the walk to the guard room. “What, you figure some magic way to get your brother out of that hole and into the guards’ room?” Michael coldly replies to him that Lincoln isn’t going to be there. The rest of the men share a look as they walk behind Michael.

The door to Lincoln’s cell slides open. He shields his eyes as they adjust to the first light he’s seen in hours. The Reverend moves toward Lincoln, turning on the lights as he enters the cell. He tells Lincoln that he saw Michael today, and that Michael prayed for him. Lincoln chuckles meekly, noting that if Michael is praying he “must be desperate.” The Reverend offers Lincoln what comfort he can, and hands Lincoln the rosary. Lincoln examines this object that his brother sent to him. As he turns it over, he discovers that one end is loose. He begins to pick and fidget with it until the back pops off to reveal the black pill and a small piece of paper. It reads “EAT 8:10.”

As death penalty protesters picket outside the gates of Fox River, Veronica parks her car and heads towards the gathering of media trucks. Watching from across the parking lot are two female special agents, including the straight forward, no-nonsense Agent Brinker. Once she has a visual on Veronica, Brinker updates Kellerman on the phone. She also reports that Hale, who had orders to be there as well, is M.I.A.. Annoyed, Kellerman hangs up and immediately dials Hale’s number.

As his cell phone rings in the background, Hale and his wife hurriedly pack what belongings they can. Hale tells her not to answer the phone. He throws on his jacket and says he needs to take care of one last thing before they go. He adds, “Make sure you pack everything, because once we’re out that door, we’re not coming back.”

Veronica stands before a local news van and announces that she represents Lincoln Burrows and she wants to tell her story. Angela West, the producer of the news team, eagerly sets up the interview. Not wanting to arouse any further suspicion, Agent Brinker watches from a distance as Veronica and Angela begin to talk.

Back in the P.I. room, T-Bag turns from working on the drywall to ask Michael what the plan is. Michael tells them that they’re just supposed to keep working like they always do. But T-Bag wants to know the exact time they’ll be leaving. Michael responds nine o’clock. T-Bag points out that P.I. ends at five o’clock. Michael says they’re going to need to make sure that P.I. doesn’t end at five tonight. As the team looks on, Michael removes a piece the drywall, then rips out some insulation to reveal a water pipe. Michael grabs a sledge hammer and swings at the pipe. After a couple good blows, the pipe splits and water sprays out, soaking the room as well as the team.

Two guards stand over the P.I. crew, now drenched and sitting on the floor. Bellick storms in and bellows, “What the hell happened here?” Michael confesses that they messed up and hit a water pipe. He assures Bellick that the crew can fix it in the morning, before the mold sets in. Bellick, already upset that the crew has lingered for so long in repairing his break room, furiously orders them to get the room back on track tonight. They’re not to leave until everything is repaired. Bellick leads the other guards out in a huff, and the soaking wet escape team share a smile and a couple handshakes. Their plan might just be back on track.

Angela emerges from the news van, having checked into some of Veronica’s claims. She assures her co-producer that a lot of it checks out and prepares to put Veronica on the air. Veronica steels herself beside the reporter and within seconds, she is on the air being interviewed by a field reporter. She tells the cameras her story, insisting, “There’s a whole string of proof. Murders. Leticia Barris, a potential exculpatory witness. Lisa Rix, the mother of Lincoln’s child. Bishop McMorrow, the man that could’ve petitioned the governor for clemency...” Veronica finishes with her conviction that someone is covering up the truth behind the murder of Terrence Steadman and that she has a source “on the inside” who can exonerate Lincoln.

Veronica’s face is suddenly framed on a television screen in the Vice President’s office. She sits behind her desk, composed but irritated as she says darkly to Kellerman, who watches with her, “Someone’s been talking.”

As Pope and Bellick look on, an electrician performs the uneasy task of prepping the electric chair. Bellick and Pope are silent as the electrician completes his inspection and informs them it’s time for a test run.

Lincoln examines the pill under a feeble stream of light coming through a vent in the dark cell. As he looks at it, the lights in the prison flutter on and off. When they go back on, Lincoln closes his eyes, realizing the significance of that surge of energy.

Two C.O.s escort Veronica down the echoing hall to Lincoln’s cell. When they open the door, she instantly demands that the lights in the cell be turned on. She slowly walks in, then embraces Lincoln. She tells him that everyone is okay. Scared, but okay. She then tells him about her source and urges him to have faith. “Whatever Michael’s planning, he doesn’t need to do it now. We’re gonna beat this thing the right way,” she tells him. But he’s still concerned. What if her plan doesn’t work? She leans in and kisses Lincoln. “Don’t give up on me,” she whispers.

Allison rolls a couple of suitcases to the front door and grabs her keys. When she opens the door, Kellerman stands there, startling her. They share an uneasy greeting as he looks inside her house and notices she’s packed nearly all of her belongings. Allison tells him that they’re going on vacation, to the Bahamas. Kellerman asks where Hale is.

Through the vent in his cell, Lincoln calls to C.O. Patterson to ask the time. Patterson tells him that it’s a few minutes after eight o’clock. Lincoln takes another look at the pill in his hand, then tosses it in his mouth.

Sucre tells Michael it’s 8:15 p.m. and Michael just silently taps the back of his head against the wall. Sucre asks him if he’s okay. Michael simply says, “No.”

Lincoln’s body begins to convulse and he tries to fight the urge to vomit. He grimaces in pain and lies on the floor. Through his teeth, he groans, “Michael…what have you done?”

Three C.O.s and a doctor rush Lincoln on a gurney down a hall. His face contorts with pain.

Michael stares at the wall, then checks his watch. C-Note moves up behind him, “Nine o’clock, Fish. Showtime.”

Lincoln still on the gurney, shakes violently. He rolls on his side and sees the grate under the sink. A smile creeps onto his face as he realizes that he’s in the infirmary. A male orderly tells a C.O. to call and find out if Sara has left yet.

The guys remove the carpet and plaque, revealing the hole in the floor. Westmoreland jams a crowbar into the door handle. They all stand around the hole, smiles on their faces. “See you on the other side,” Michael says as he drops down into the hole.

Lincoln, stable, lies on the infirmary bed. Sara sits next to him, confident that he was struck by a case of food poisoning. Unfortunately it’s not a serious enough medical ailment to forestall the execution. She offers to stay with him, but Lincoln declines. She exits the exam room and Lincoln turns to look at the grate again.

The crew moves quickly through giant pipes under the prison. T-Bag warns C-Note, “Your boys better be there.” C-Note assures him that they will.

A large SUV pulls up outside the prison walls. Darius steps out of the driver’s side, along with his anxious friend, Spider. Darius pops the hood of his SUV to make it look like his car has broken down.

Veronica waits in a dark alley, still unsure of who she’ll be meeting. Hale slowly walks up to her and tells her they have a lot to talk about, but not much time to do it. He tells her that Lincoln was picked a long time ago to take the fall for Steadman’s murder. Veronica wants to know exactly who it was that did kill Steadman. “Nobody. Terrence Steadman’s still alive.” Hale reaches into his jacket and pulls out an envelope. He tells her that inside it, she’ll find the names of all the people involved in the conspiracy, top to bottom. Before he can hand Veronica the envelope, Hale sees a car pulling up. He tells Veronica she needs to hide behind a nearby car immediately. Hale sticks the envelope back in his jacket pocket and Veronica takes cover just as Kellerman pulls up. Kellerman walks right up to Hale and demands to know where Veronica is. Hale refuses to cooperate. Kellerman wastes no time and reaches into Hale’s pocket to confiscate his firearm. When the envelope falls from Hale’s jacket, Kellerman keeps his gun trained on Hale and smiles as he scans its contents. “Amazing. You got all of it on just three pages. You know what could happen if this got in the wrong hands?” Kellerman’s smile fades as he continues reading. “You named me? Right there along with the rest of them.” Hale begs for his life, but Kellerman is consumed with this ultimate betrayal. “You named me.” He fires a single shot and Hale drops to the ground, just feet from where Veronica shudders in silence.

The escape crew comes up from the floor in the maintenance room, directly under the infirmary. T-Bag keeps lookout at the door and Michael climbs up a shelf to look at the pipe that leads to grate in the infirmary. Panic seizes him when he notices that the piece of pipe that he had worked on corroding has now been replaced with a brand new piece. He reaches up with his hand in complete disbelief. He looks down at the guys. They all look back, waiting for the next step, “They replaced it,” he whispers with a stunned look on his face.

Steam rises from the open hood of Darius’ engine. Jittery, Spider removes a gun from his belt. Darius tells him to put it away just as two C.O.s walk up to them. The C.O.s tell them that they can’t park there. Darius points out that his SUV broke down. One C.O. looks over the engine and the other demands that Spider and Darius raise their hands so he can see them. When Spider’s hands come up, the gun is gone, stashed in the waistband of his pants. The C.O. at the engine reconnects the radiator hose that Darius sabotaged and orders the two to move on, “or we’re going to have a problem.” With no other option, Darius and Spider are forced to get back in the SUV and drive off.

Lincoln takes the IV needle out his arm and calls Michael’s name into the grate, Michael excitedly knocks back against the new metal plate. Michael then frantically begins to try and tear down the piping. Westmoreland grabs a piece of industrial pipe and they try to wedge it between the ceiling and the pipe. T-Bag issues a “SSH!” as a C.O. walks past the room. When they’re clear, they being pulling downward on the industrial pipe. Lincoln, above, is hammering downward with the handle of a mop. Michael continues trying to pull down on the pipe, but it won’t budge. Michael slouches down in defeat and tells them that they can’t get out. T-Bag reaches into his boot and pulls out a shiv. He slowly approaches Michael with the others looking on, “Unfortunately, Pretty, that ain’t an option. You are going to get us out of here.”

Michael rests his head on his hand, covered in sweat.




Prison Break
Episode 114 "The Rat"
Airdate: 03/20/2006

Michael and the escape team are still trapped in the prison utility room. Above them, the newly installed pipe is an impenetrable obstacle that separates Michael from his brother. T-Bag slowly saunters towards Michael, spinning a shiv in his right hand. He reminds the team that he’s serving life plus one. “ So if I get busted for attempted escape, I’ll throw in a homicide, no problem. That’s like a parking ticket to me.” Sucre tries to get T-Bag to stand down, but tensions run too high for rational thought. In the infirmary above, Lincoln bangs on the grate with a mop handle, making a loud and desperate attempt to get through to his brother.

Lincoln scrambles to replace the mop when he hears the approach of Dr. Sara Tancredi, who asks what he’s doing out of bed. Lincoln convinces her that he felt nauseous, so he went to the drain. But before she can respond, a C.O. enters and insists that Lincoln be handcuffed to the gurney. Lincoln doesn’t want to give the guard his wrists, knowing that if he is cuffed to the bed, there is no chance of escape. The C.O. slaps the cuffs on Lincoln.

The escapees in the utility room below panic at the sound of jingling keys. It can only be one thing.

Outside the utility room, a C.O. stands at the door hunting for the right key. He enters the room and scans it. He seems to find everything satisfactory until he spots a thin piece of pipe that broke while the escape crew attempted to pry the newly installed pipe from the ceiling. He picks it up, and inspects the edge, then looks upwards to the newly installed pipe. The escapees – hidden behind various shelves – look on with concern. T-Bag readies his shiv. The C.O. calls to another guard outside to come and check out what he’s found. The second C.O. doesn’t answer, so he moves into the hallway to find him. As soon as the room is clear, Westmoreland urges, “We gotta go, NOW!” He takes the rope from Sucre and they tie it to a nearby shelving unit. The men start sliding down the rope, and back into the drainage area below the utility room.

In the infirmary, Lincoln struggles against his cuffs, but he’s not going anywhere.

In the utility room, the C.O.s examine the pieces of the broken pipe. Under the grate in the floor they stand on, Michael dangles from the rope, watching the guards in a tense silence.

Captain Bellick barrels into the administration office and asks the other C.O.s if they want to head out to a local bar for a two-fer Tuesday. His happy hour plans are forgotten however, when he looks outside to the guards’ room and sees that the sheetrock outside hasn’t been moved yet. His expression darkens.

Sucre and the escape team race through the tunnels under the prison, as Bellick storms towards the guards’ room above ground.

Sucre pops out of the hole first, followed by C-Note, T-Bag and Michael. But Westmoreland has fallen behind.

Bellick grabs the door to the guards’ room but it doesn’t budge. On the other side, a crowbar Westmoreland slid through the handle acts as a sturdy barricade. The team urges Westmoreland to hurry up and get through the hole as the crowbar slips through the door handle. Michael forces Westmoreland to stay in the hole. They cover him quickly as the crowbar clangs to the ground.

Bellick storms in. “Why was this door locked?” Bellick demands. T-Bag is quick with an excuse about needing to keep it secure because of a draft. Bellick reams the cons for their slow work, telling them to wrap it up and get their asses back to the tier, “All four of you.” He stalks out, but halts a few feet down the hall. Something’s fishy.

Bellick barges back into the guards’ room, announcing, “You seem to be one light.” But Westmoreland pops into view. Bellick, though still suspicious, can only turn and leave. Alone and out of danger, the team takes its first breath of realization that the escape has failed.

In their cell, Sucre asks Michael if he thinks his brother knows they didn’t make it, but Michael is silent.

In the infirmary, Lincoln can only yank on the metal cuffs holding him to the gurney. He casts an urgent glance at the drainage grate beneath the sink.

The next morning, Warden Pope stands outside the prison walls fielding questions from reporters about Lincoln’s upcoming execution.

Still in hiding in Nick Savrinn’s apartment, LJ watches the news report about his father, fighting back tears.

Michael paces in his cell, Sucre sits on the top bunk. Michael tells Sucre that it’s sixteen hours until the execution and that there’s only one person left who can have any effect now.

Michael, in handcuffs, is walked into the infirmary. Through the glass he sees Sara, and in a room behind her, his brother. Michael and Lincoln make eye contact through the glass as Sara enters Michael’s room. “I need to see my brother, just to talk, for five minutes,” he begs. Sara says she’ll try, but the C.O. on guard tells her Michael must wait until final visitation. As Sara prepares his diabetes shot, Michael desperately blurts out, “Will you talk to your father for me?” Sara tells Michael that if she thought there was any chance that things would change if she talked to her father, she would do it. But because of her contentious relationship with her father, if Sara asks for clemency, there is no way Lincoln will get it. Lincoln walks through the infirmary in shackles, surrounded by C.O.s., Michael moves to the door to watch him go.

Nick and Veronica flank a heavy set court clerk, Lyle. They beg him to arrange a time for them to appeal to Judge Kessler for a stay. Lyle is stunned to learn that they believe Steadman to be alive and want to petition for an exhumation for the body in Steadman’s grave. Nick pleads with his law school buddy to put any political interests aside and do the right thing. Lyle succumbs, offering them fifteen minutes in the afternoon.

Sucre and Michael sit on the bleachers in the yard. Michael doesn’t think Lincoln knows what happened but Sucre tells him that he’s sure Lincoln knows that he tried. Michael says, “I promised I’d get him out of here.” T-Bag interrupts, “You promised a lot of people, Pretty.” Sucre steps in and T-Bag backs down, but not before warning Michael, “You owe me a ticket out of here, Pretty. And I will collect.”

In the line to return to gen pop, Westmoreland slides up next to Michael and offers his condolences for Lincoln. Westmoreland’s known a few guys to get the chair since he’s been at Fox River. “Once, ‘bout ten years ago, man got a few sparks in him, but not enough to do the job. Had to wait another three weeks while they redid the whole process.” Michael smiles when he hears this; the wheels in his head begin to turn. Without warning, Tweener pops up behind them, still pushing to be part of the gang. Michael heads off and Tweener asks Westmoreland what they were talking about. Westmoreland quietly says, “Nothing.”

Michael anxiously taps his fingers on the door of his cell while Sucre rests on the top bunk. Suddenly, Michael jumps to the back of the cell, “I’m going in.” Sucre is caught off guard and blurts out, “It’s daytime!” Michael just looks at Sucre, who climbs off the top bunk to hang the sheet. Michael pulls the toilet away from the wall, and grabs a concealed bag of tuna from under a notebook.

Inside the pipes under the prison, a rat walks up to a small pile of tuna. Michael’s hand shoots from the darkness and grabs the rat by its tail. Michael turns and moves quickly down another pipe.

Lincoln anxiously rubs his cuffed hands together. Sara, sitting on the bed next to him, puts her hand on his, and asks Lincoln if he has any questions about what is going to happen. Lincoln muses that little of what Sara has to say will do any good at midnight. Instead, he asks about his brother. Sara says Michael is eager to see Lincoln, but it can't happen until final visitation. Sara adds that a doctor must be present during the execution, so she’ll be there at midnight. There’s a moment of silence, then Lincoln asks her to look out for Michael.

Sucre holds a mirror outside his cell and watches a C.O. approach. He taps three times on the metal bed frame just before the C.O. walks by. Seconds later, three metallic taps come from behind the toilet, signaling Sucre to pull the toilet from the wall so Michael can climb out from the catwalks. Michael springs out and begins taking the sheet down. Sucre asks, “What were you doing back there?” But Michael stays quiet.

Tweener sits across from Bellick, dipping French fries in his milkshake. Bellick laughs, and asks Tweener for the latest gossip in the yard. Bellick leans in close, waiting for news about Scofield, but all Tweener offers is info on some con trying to find a joint. Bellick grabs the hamburger from Tweener’s hands, reminding Tweener that his focus is Scofield. Tweener complains that Scofield won’t open up to him. Bellick says, “In that case, it’ll be one hundred dollars for the burgers.” If Tweener can’t come up with the money, Bellick’s going to have an auction to see which inmate will be Tweener’s new cellmate. Tweener, wracked with self-hatred and fear, finally confesses, “In the yard today, I did hear Scofield says somethin’.” He tells Bellick that he heard Michael say if something goes wrong with the electric chair, then Lincoln gets three more weeks to live. Bellick tells Tweener they’re square and sends Tweener back to gen pop.

Bellick storms down the prison hallways to the execution room. C.O. Geary is going over a preparation checklist when Bellick enters and tells him to run a test. Geary says they ran one this morning, but Bellick insists. Geary nods to another C.O. in a control room, who flips the switch. Nothing happens.

The cell doors slide open and the cons walk out into the main hall. Sucre asks if they’re still going through the infirmary, but Michael says he can’t corrode the pipe in the grate again. Sucre asks what the next plan is, but Michael isn’t concerned about escaping right now. He’s more concerned with his brother staying alive.

Bellick and Geary move through a narrow hallway in the belly of the prison to the source of the electric chair’s power. Bellick pops open the fuse panel door, and tucked inside is a rat’s carcass.

Lincoln sits in his cell, quietly praying and prepping himself for his final hours. His cell door slides open and a group of C.O.s move in. Lincoln asks to see his brother, and C.O. Stolte says he can see him in final visitation. Another C.O. moves to shackle Lincoln, but Stolte holds him back and tells Lincoln, “ It’s your last day, Linc. I’d prefer to keep you out of cuffs as much as possible, but I need some assurances.” Lincoln nods and gives his word that there won’t be need for restraints. Stolte takes out a small leather satchel.

Veronica stands in a courtroom before Judge Kessler. “From the outset, Your Honor, Mr. Burrows' case has been tainted by a conspiracy characterized by destruction of evidence, distortion of truth and witness intimidation.” Opposing counsel Peter Tucci objects. He declares that Veronica has no proof behind her claims. Nick jumps in and offers that a video forensic analyst argued the authenticity of the parking garage surveillance video that showed Lincoln assassinating Terrence Steadman. Tucci again quickly interjects that of course, the tape no longer exists. Both Nick and Veronica battle Tucci’s every claim while Judge Kessler listens intently. Veronica tells the Judge that she saw Agent Kellerman shoot and kill her informant, Agent Danny Hale in an attempt to continue the cover up. Tucci presents a document to Judge Kessler, from the Secret Service, stating that there have never been agents with those names enlisted in the Secret Service. Finally, Judge Kessler is fed up with the bickering and declares, “Do either of you have any evidence that is admissible? Even just tangible? Your claims, if true, are terrifying. But anything, or anyone, that could verify your story is either gone, missing or dead.” He needs a few hours to consider both sides.

An electrician peels the dead rat out of the high voltage box for the electric chair. C.O. Geary asks if this is a regular occurrence, the electrician confirms, “Yeah, they’re attracted to heat when they’re cold. Plus, they got collapsible vertebrae or some deal. So they can squeeze through a crack yea big if they’re determined.” The electrician explains that if the rat’s tail touches metal while it’s chewing on the wires, it’s enough to short out the fuse. Bellick wants the fuse changed immediately, but the electrician says he has to notify the state and fill out paperwork. When Bellick tries to get the electrician to look the other way, the electrician resists and says they could all lose their jobs and be brought up on charges. Bellick tells him that only the three of them know. The electrician and Geary both reluctantly go along with Bellick’s plan.

In his cell, Michael checks his watch. Six hours until the execution. Bellick appears at Michael’s cell door and tells Michael that his brother is on the way to final visitation. Bellick watches Michael carefully. “You look surprised.” The lights flicker through the prison when the chair is tested again. Michael exits his cell, head down.

Stolte finishes shaving Lincoln’s head, and thanks him for keeping his word, “We’ll be moving you to final visitation soon.”

Michael paces in visitation, waiting for Lincoln. The door opens, and Lincoln shuffles in, his hands and feet shackled. While one C.O. removes the cuffs, C.O. Patterson attempts to discreetly hand Lincoln a sort of diaper and asks Lincoln to change into it. Lincoln refuses, then turns and smiles at Michael. The C.O.s leave and Lincoln tries to make the best of the situation by joking about his freshly shaved head. Michael starts asking about the appeal, but Lincoln just wants him to stay quiet and accept that the execution is going to happen. He doesn’t want to waste any more time on hoping something happens, and instead, just wants to share memories with his brother.

LJ stomps through Nick’s apartment, Veronica close on his heels. She’s telling him that he can’t go with her to see his father. There will be cops and security everywhere and LJ is still considered a fugitive. Nick’s cell phone rings; it’s Lyle with Judge Kessler’s ruling. Nick looks despondent and Veronica knows their appeal was denied. There’s a knock at the apartment door, Nick sends LJ to the back room and cautiously opens the door. It’s Sara. “Are you the attorneys for Lincoln Burrows?”

In final visitation, Lincoln and Michael play cards. Lincoln grabs a piece of blueberry pancake, but can barely stomach it. Veronica arrives and immediately embraces Lincoln. She reluctantly tells them that they lost the appeal. Veronica also reports that Sara came by and agreed to talk to her father, Governor Tancredi. Veronica tells Lincoln that she couldn’t bring LJ, but she calls LJ on her cell phone. She gives Lincoln the phone. Lincoln tells LJ that he wants him to stick close to Nick and Veronica. LJ tells his father, “I had a dream last night. You and me were working on a house, pounding nails. And in the dream it felt like we were both older. It was really clear, the whole dream. When I woke up, I knew that today wasn’t going to be the end. We’ll see each other again, Dad. I know it.” Lincoln closes his eyes as he cradles the phone.

In a stately government building, Sara urges Governor Tancredi to review the information she took from Nick and Sara. The governor reminds her, “ Being tough on crime and being pro-capital punishment is a philosophy I believe in. It’s also a philosophy I campaigned under and was elected for.” Sara, realizing she’s fighting a losing battle, bitterly shoves the case files to her father. She tells him, “I have to go back to Fox River. I have to be there when they kill this man. The least you could do is review his case. If it helps, pretend it didn’t come from me.”

Time is almost out in final visitation and Lincoln grimly contemplates that the world will remember him as an assassin. He quietly mutters, “I didn’t do it.” Then he explodes with anger, shaking the table and screaming, “I DIDN’T DO IT!” Warden Pope walks into the room, flanked by C.O.s, Lincoln’s time is up.

The C.O.s march a shackled Lincoln towards the room with the electric chair. C.O. Stolte rushes in with a cell phone and hands it to the Warden, “It’s the Governor!” The Pope listens carefully, then closes the phone. He stands before Lincoln and breaks the terrible news. “The Governor has reviewed your case, fully. He’s not granting clemency.” The execution will go forward.

The Governor stands in his office, overlooking the city. The Vice President creeps up behind him from the darkness, “You’ve done your country and your party a great service. It will not go unnoticed.”

Lincoln and the C.O.s walk over a thick yellow line painted on the floor, Bellick moves between Lincoln and the others and tells Michael and Veronica that they can’t go any farther. Veronica softly asks Bellick if she can have one last second with Lincoln, and he obliges. Veronica slowly moves to Lincoln, now crying, and hugs him. She whispers, “I’ve loved you since the first time I saw you.” She moves back behind the line, and Pope orders Michael’s cuffs to be removed. He hugs his brother one last time, and then retreats behind the line.

Lincoln’s life flashes back, his friends, his family, his loves. In a memory, Lincoln’s voice echoes, “ I came in here a man. Give me the strength to walk out of here a man.”

The door opens and Lincoln is faced with the electric chair.




Prison Break
Episode 115"By the Skin & the Teeth"
Airdate: 03/27/2006

The clock on the execution room wall reads 11:58 PM. Only minutes before Lincoln Burrows’ execution, Bellick and Pope stand off to the side as two C.O.s strap Lincoln into the chair. Lincoln clenches his hands around the arms of the chair and breathes deeply as the C.O.s attach the final bolts to the headpiece.

Warden Pope nods to Bellick to open the curtain to the viewing room, revealing Michael, sitting on the other side of the glass. Lincoln’s jaw tightens. He scans the people in the viewing room. An older man, off in the corner, removes a baseball hat to reveal salt and pepper hair. Lincoln squints at the man, a trace of recognition in his eyes. Lincoln quietly urges his brother to turn around, but the headpiece restraints restrict his speech. Michael can’t figure out what his brother is trying to tell him.

The C.O.s drop a black hood over Lincoln’s face and step away from the chair. The Pope checks the clock while another C.O. mans the switches that activates the electric current into the chair.

A telephone inside the execution chamber rings and the red light on faceplate blinks furiously.

Without warning, the C.O.s close the curtain.

Michael jumps to his feet, “What’s going on?” He looks to Veronica for an answer, but she has none. He steps closer the window and looks into the black, “What the hell is going on in there?”

Michael anxiously waits in the final visitation room with Veronica. Finally, Warden Pope enters, escorted by a guard. “I can’t tell you how sorry I am that you had to go through all this,” he offers. After another tense moment, the jingling of chains and shackles intensifies. Lincoln numbly pads around the corner, guided by a C.O.. Michael asks what happened and Pope tells him that new evidence has surfaced that Judge Kessler felt warranted a delay of the execution. Veronica quickly exits, heading out to get more information from Judge Kessler. Once she’s gone, Lincoln, still in shock, asks Michael if he saw the man in the room. Michael is confused by his brother’s question and says he did not. Lincoln moves forward and grits his teeth, “It was dad…” Michael says that it’s not possible. There were only a few people in the viewing room, Michael contends, and why would their father return now, nearly thirty years after he left them? But Lincoln is sure. He saw their father.

“Why is he still alive?” the Vice President furiously asks Agent Kellerman and Samantha Brinker. Kellerman tells her that new information has been leaked to the Judge. The Vice President and Brinker are quick to point the finger at Kellerman’s deceased partner, Agent Danny Hale. Kellerman counters that if Hale had given Veronica anything of value, she would have brought it to Judge Kessler during the appeal. Kellerman frankly implies that the leak could have come from The Company. The Vice President orders them to find the leak.

Peter Tucci, the Vice President’s council, and Veronica sit before Judge Kessler in his chambers where the Judge explains why he granted the stay. He received a folder with two pieces of paper inside. “One is Terrence Steadman’s autopsy report. In it, his appendix is noted as present and unremarkable. The other paper is an operative report from when Mr. Steadman was twelve years-old. The procedure was an appendectomy.” Tucci is suspicious of the evidence’s authenticity, Veronica wastes no time requesting that Lincoln’s conviction be overturned. The Judge says that he’s delaying the execution for two weeks while he analyzes the reports and exhumes the body of the Vice President’s brother. Tucci shouts that an exhumation is a drastic step, but the Judge defends that it’s the only way to be sure that the body in the ground is actually Steadman.

Michael stands at the phones in the yard. Veronica eagerly fills him in on the events that took place in the Judge’s chambers.

Back in his cell, Michael stands with his arm out the front doors, using a mirror to check the location of the guards. He has filled Sucre in on all the events involving Lincoln, and Michael tells him that he’s not going to wait around hoping that the body is not Terrence Steadman’s. If they have two more weeks, Michael wants to get back to work on their escape plan.

Pope stands in the door of Lincoln’s Ad Seg cell. He’s never seen anything like this before; Lincoln clearly has people you will do anything to get him out of Fox River. As the Warden turns to leave, Lincoln asks Pope who was in the viewing room for his execution. Warden Pope flips through a stack of papers and tells Lincoln, “those present were your brother and attorney, Dr. Tancredi and three reporters. Two women and one man.” Lincoln inquires about the man, Pope tells him, “Reporter from the Headline Press. William Prall. You know him?” Lincoln says no, and hangs his head, sad and confused. Pope calls for a guard, who shuts the Ad Seg door.

Sucre holds a mirror while Michael, shirtless, scans the tattoo on his upper right shoulder blade, looking for another way out. Sucre wonders why Michael didn’t just have “Route 66” hidden in the tattoos, and Michael tells him that he had to plan for contingencies. Michael thinks he’s found a new way out, but it’s going to be very dangerous.

Michael, T-Bag, C-Note, Sucre and Westmoreland, decked out in winter P.I. gear, spread salt over the sally port road and clean up the snow around it. After some small talk, Michael gets down to business. As they work, Michael tells them they’re still going out through the infirmary and starting in the guards’ room. Michael tells them the only way to get to the infirmary now is to go through the Psychiatric Ward. Unfortunately, Route 66 will only take them halfway there underground. The rest of the way, they have to cover on foot, above ground. C-Note eyes the three towers surrounding the yard. If they show their faces, they’ll be like ducks in a shooting gallery. But there’s no other way.

Back in their cell, Michael tells Sucre that he has to go back into the walls. He needs to find a way to the psych ward and see the pipes and sewers beneath. Sucre shares C-Note’s concerns about the towers, and Michael agrees. Across the block, Sucre’s cousin, Manche Sanchez, pushes a laundry bin across the catwalks. Sucre tells Michael he might have an idea.

The Vice President speaks at a press conference, she tells the press, “My family and I are more than dismayed by Judge Kessler’s decision to allow the exhumation of my brother.” As she speaks, Nick and Veronica stand by as a small crane lifts a very badly rotted coffin from the snow covered ground. The Vice President continues her passionate speech, saying it’s a stunt by Lincoln’s defense council to put a negative spin on the memory of a good man.

Veronica and Nick comment how convenient it is that Steadman asked for a “green burial.” It is very environmentally friendly, but also a great scheme for someone who wanted to conceal a corpse’s identity.

Sucre and Manche walk through the laundry room. Manche denies Sucre’s mysterious request. Manche wants nothing to do with it and fears what might happen if either of their mothers find out they got in trouble in Fox River. Sucre reminds Manche that he owes Sucre a favor. The two bicker back and forth, reminding each other of old favors, until Sucre pulls his trump card. “The donkey,” he says sternly. Manche is shocked that Sucre would stoop to that level and reminds Sucre that they took an oath to never tell anyone about that incident. Sucre threatens, “Don’t make me break it.”

Lincoln, asleep in his cell, dreams of the past. He is a small boy, walking with his father towards the grand entrances of Wrigley Field in Chicago. Young Lincoln and his father sit close to the field, his father tells Lincoln to watch a nearby pitcher who warms up before the game.

Manche does his best to slide into Sucre and Michael’s cell. Sucre sits up quickly and asks Manche, “You got it?” Manche gives a look to Michael to make sure he’s cool, Sucre says it’s alright. Manche slides a suit wrapped in plastic out from underneath the front of his prison blues. Sucre hands the package to Michael as Manche informs them that he’ll need it back by morning, otherwise the guards will know something is up.

The cons continue their slow rebuild of the guards’ room. Michael paces with a crowbar over his shoulder. C-Note and Westmoreland haul in some more lumber and along the way, C-Note drops something. Westmoreland picks it up and examines it. It’s a postcard to Iraq. C-Note snatches the card away.

Bellick marches around the corner of the guards’ room, en route to the front door. T-Bag, on lookout, snakes back into the room to warn the cons that trouble is coming.

“Let’s look busy,” Michael orders. C-note notices a small tear in the drywall, and picks at it. And that is just enough to worsen the problem. The cement hidden in the walls from digging up the floor begins to slowly pour through the tear. C-Note scrambles to fix the problem, but before he can, Bellick enters. He’s angry that the job has taken them so long to complete and tosses insults at the bunch. C-Note presses his foot against the tear, hoping to slow the problem, but Bellick singles him out and orders him back to work. C-Note does his best to hold his spot, claiming his leg is asleep. But Bellick insists that he move. Westmoreland shoves C-Note out to of the way and pretends to lay into him, “My problem is young con punks who don’t know how things work around here. Screw things up for those of us who do. Construction’s a sweet gig. You wanna clean toilets, be my guest. Otherwise, grab a hammer.” Bellick smiles, seeing his old friend Westmoreland light a fire under C-Note. Westmoreland’s foot conceals the slow flow of concrete, as Bellick leaves the room. “Close one, huh?” he notes to the group. But when he moves his foot away, the weight of the concrete forces the hole to expand and the concrete flows out.

C.O.s Stolte and Patterson pass Bellick on their rounds, debating about where an old football player attended college. When the two can’t make a decision, they move towards T-Bag, who is outside keeping watch. T-Bag quickly bangs his clipboard on the front door to alert the P.I. team, who frantically sweep the concrete into the hole in the floor below. Stolte asks T-Bag where he thinks the player went to school, but T-Bag can only muster a nervous “Not exactly sure there, boss.” The cons continue to shovel the concrete into the hole. T-Bag’s answer doesn’t help Stolte and he decides to ask the crew in the guards’ room. Just as he cracks the door and the cons freeze, T-Bag blurts “Ohio State.” Stolte pauses. “That’s right! He was a Buckeye!” Stolte closes the door and continues on his way with Patterson.

Sara removes a blood pressure cuff from Lincoln’s arm. She asks him about his stomach, and he says he’s a little nauseous. Sara notes that it’s understandable considering his situation. As Sara packs up Lincoln asks her. “With all that was going on yesterday. Heart racing. Head pounding. Could that all cause me to see something that wasn’t there?” Sara says yes, he may have seen spots or bright lights, but that’s not what Lincoln meant. He says he saw a person, someone who couldn’t have been there. Sara tells him that his hallucinations may be caused by Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, and he’s a prime candidate for it. When Sara asks who it was that Lincoln thought he saw, he just thanks her for coming.

In the guards’ room, it’s business as usual. Westmoreland patches drywall next to C-Note, and quietly offers, “I’ve seen a lot of rackets in my time, but if you’re doing what I think you’re doing with those postcards…yours definitely takes the cake.” C-Note tries to brush the Old Head off, but Westmoreland is persistent. “What do you do? Write ‘em here, send ‘em to a pal in Iraq, have him mail ‘em your wife’s way?” C-Note grows increasingly frustrated with Westmoreland’s questioning. C-Note steps up to Westmoreland after he asks who “Dee Dee” is, he wants Charles to stay quiet. Westmoreland finishes by saying he know it’s C-Note’s daughter and family is the first place the guards are going to look once they break out…because that’s exactly where he’s going to go.

Night falls on the prison. Lincoln sleeps, again dreaming of the day at Wrigley Field with his father. Young Lincoln watches the pitcher closely, like his father asks. Lincoln zeroes in on his father’s favorite player, and the name on the back of the jersey: “Prall.” Lincoln’s eyes snap open, and he flashes back to what Pope told him that morning. “William Prall, you know him?”

Michael and Sucre sit in their cell. Michael explains that while the psych ward is their way out, it will be real easy to get lost. “When they built this place in 1858, the pipes were lead. A century later, they discovered lead was a health risk, so they went to copper. They never removed the lead pipes. Cost too much. There are thousands of yards of the stuff still down there. Then a few years ago, they switched to industrial plastic. Again, it was cheaper just to lay it over the old stuff.” Michael tells Sucre that if he makes a wrong turn, he won’t make it back by count.

Michael squats low and moves through the bowels of the prison until he sees his exit to the surface. Michael finally opens the package that was delivered by Manche.

Above ground, the sewer grate slides up and off the manhole. Slowly, Michael climbs up from the hole and replaces the grate. He is dressed from head to toe in a guard’s. Before Michael can get his bearings, a spotlight opens up and points directly at him. Michael quickly waves his hand to the tower, feigning a casual guard’s stance. The spotlight shuts off, and Michael moves towards the Psychiatric Ward.

He rings the buzzer at the front door, which pulls Psych Ward Orderly Sklar away from his reading. Sklar pushes another button which unlocks the door, allowing Michael to enter. Sklar comments, “I don’t believe my eyes. One of the blues, actually coming into psych ward.” Michael tells him that he needs to use the bathroom and didn’t want to walk all the way back to A-Wing to relieve himself. As Michael walks by, Sklar tells him that he’d rather deal with the “crazies” than the “killers” because it’s far easier to control the “crazies.” Michael replies by asking how to get to the bathroom. Sklar seems disappointed that Michael doesn’t want to chat. “Down the hall, through the door, make a right,” Sklar tells him. Michael moves down the hall.

Sucre watches the guards as they begin their rounds for count. He nervously checks his watch.

Michael slowly moves down a flight of psych ward stairs, clearly deviating from Sklar’s directions. He finds himself in the basement, which is packed with antiquated instruments and equipment. He creeps through the clutter, making note of his surroundings. He opens another door, enters, and closes it behind him. He stands in the old coal room. On the ground, he clears the rubble away from a panel that reads, “UTILITY SYSTEM ACCESS.” Michael grabs a handle with both hands, opens it fully, and looks down the hole. Suddenly, he hears the access buzzer from above. Sklar is moving closer.

Sklar finds Michael, making his retreat to the main floor. Sklar asks what Michael is doing in the basement, and Michael covers by saying, “You said, down the hall, through the door and to the left.” Sklar corrects him, and Michael quickly moves out of the old basement. Sklar then asks Michael, “Blue! Hold up!” Michael freezes, and Sklar continues, “Don’tcha still have to take a leak?” Michael smiles, and says yes.

A very decayed body is laid out on an examination table. Dr. Wasserman, the county’s forensic expert, informs Nick and Veronica of his findings. “With decomposition this extensive, the most accurate identification tool is dental records. We took an imprint of the deceased’s teeth and compared them with the dental records of Terrence Steadman.” As unlikely as it seems, Wasserman says that the dental records are a match. Peter Tucci stands nearby and thanks Dr. Wasserman for his time and smugly smiles. Veronica opens the door to the medical lab, where the Vice President is waiting. She coldly states to Veronica, “I hope you’re proud of this. You’ve gotten your pound of flesh. Are you done now? Or would you like to hurt my family some more.”

Michael moves quickly out of psych ward and slides back into the manhole.

Meanwhile, Sucre paces in their cell, knowing that the guards are getting closer.

Michael moves through the boiler room. Steam pours out from exhausts around him, and scalding hot pipes make the area a maze. A door opens close enough for Michael to hear and he does his best to duck for cover. C.O. Mack moves into the room, looking around. His walkie talkie hisses, a voice at the other end asks for his location. Mack tells the voice that he’s stopping by maintenance, but he’ll be back in a minute. Behind him, within arm’s length, is Michael. Mack takes a step back, and so must Michael, which forces him to press his right shoulder blade against one of the burning steam pipes. His face contorts in pain as he does all he can to not scream and give away his location. Mack pounds a couple of shots from a flask, and Michael covers his mouth to keep from screaming. Finally, Mack leaves and Michael pulls away from the pipes.

A C.O. turns his flashlight into Sucre and Michael’s cell. Sucre lays on the top bunk, faking sleep. The C.O. shines the light on Sucre, then on Michael’s bunk, now filled with pillows to give the illusion that Michael is there. The C.O., satisfied, moves on. Seconds later, Michael bangs his signal on the pipes inside the walls. Sucre jumps from the bunk, pulls the toilet away and helps the ailing Michael back into the cell. Michael, sweating and burned, tells Sucre that he has to take the guard uniform off of him. Sucre pauses, “It’s burned to your skin, bro!” Michael demands that he take it off, no matter what. If the guards catch him with that uniform on, the burn will be the least of Michael’s worries. Sucre slowly takes Michael’s arms out of the sleeves, then asks Michael if he’s ready. Michael nods, Sucre counts to the three, then rips the burned shirt off the wound. Michael releases a blood-curdling scream, and falls forward.

Michael regains consciousness in the infirmary. Sara is sitting at her desk, filling out paper work. She notices him waking up and asks him how he feels. The anesthesia made him groggy. Michael wants to know why he had anesthesia and Sara tells him, “We had to perform a procedure.”

In the Warden’s office, Bellick bends over and gets in Sucre’s face, “So you got so sick of Scofield’s smart mouth that you decided to deep fry him, is that it?” Sucre swears he didn’t touch Michael. But Bellick goes over the facts, and it looks clear that Sucre assaulted Michael. Warden Pope isn’t sure what to believe, and Sucre defends himself, “He was acting weird when we lined up for final count. He was sweating, you know? But he’s not a big talker anyway, so I didn’t think much of it. Middle of the night, I get up to you know, shake hands with the president, and there he is, face down on the floor.” Bellick still doesn’t believe him.

Sara gives Michael pain killers, but Michael’s only concern is seeing the wound. Sara asks Michael who assaulted him. When she suggests that Sucre did it, Michael smiles and simply says, “Sucre? No.” Michael then stands firm and refuses to answer Sara’s question about who did it. Sara sends Michael back to his cell, but then calls Katie, her nurse, up to the infirmary to show her something.

Manche panics as he looks through the scorched hole of the guard uniform. “What am I going to do now!?” Sucre offers apology, but it’s not enough. C.O. Geary marches in, “Hey slim,” he says, addressing the hefty Manche, “You got my uniform ready?” Manche begins to shift, getting ready for the worst. He tells Geary that he left the iron on the uniform for too long, and Geary angrily tells Manche that the cost of the shirt is coming out of his savings. Once Geary leaves, Manche throws the shirt into Sucre’s chest and demands to know what’s going on. Sucre tells his cousin, “Trust me, the less you know, the better.” But Manche assures him, “Now you owe me.”

In the Attorney-Client Room, Veronica finds an exhausted Lincoln. He asks Veronica if there’s any more news, and Veronica lie, “No. Not yet. The testing takes a few days.” Then Lincoln opens up about seeing his father in the viewing room. He tells Veronica that he used the name, “Willie Prall” and that he’s been having dreams about it. Veronica reminds him of how poorly Lincoln’s mother spoke of his dad, but Lincoln stands by what he saw.

Several monitors play back video from the courthouse during the night Judge Kessler received the mysterious paper work about Terrence Steadman. Samantha Brinker, Kellerman, and a technician watch the video closely. Brinker notes that the guy making his way through the halls is very skilled. He seems to know exactly where all the video cameras in the courthouse are, and he deftly turns his hat to conceal his face as he passes each one. Brinker points to one monitor, where the mysterious man slides a folder under the Judge’s door. “Can you blow that up?” she asks the technician. After a few moments, the monitor reveals the face of a man in the reflection of the Judge’s door. Brinker moves in for a closer look, “Son of a bitch…I know that guy.”

Sara removes a small, dark blue piece of cloth from a pile of bloodied cotton swabs with a pair of tweezers. Katie, the nurse, scrunches her face and asks, “What is it?” Sara explains that it’s a piece of fabric that she removed from Michael’s skin during the procedure. She tells Katie that it is certainly not the fabric that makes up the standard prison uniforms; it’s the fabric used to make guard’s uniforms.

“Open on forty!” C.O. Stolte barks out as he escorts Michael back to his cell. Michael enters and Sucre asks how he’s feeling. Michael peels off his sweatshirt to reveal the gauze covering the wound on his back. Michael holds up the small mirror, so he can see the reflection of his back in the cell mirror above the sink. Panic quickly takes over. Sucre asks what’s wrong, Michael gravely answers, “The blueprints, the ones we need to get from the psych ward to the infirmary. Our map outta here. They’re gone.”




Prison Break
Episode 116 "Brother's Keeper "
Airdate: 04/03/2006

Three years ago.

Walking down the streets of Chicago, Michael finds Lincoln asleep in the doorway of his apartment, doing his best to stay warm. “Rough night?” Michael asks condescendingly. Lincoln squints and rubs his bleary eyes. Michael curtly tells his brother that he got his message and asks what he wants. Lincoln says he lost his keys. Michael impassively tosses Lincoln’s keys at him, explaining that he found them four feet from where they’re standing. Lincoln notes that it’s been awhile since they hung out, and asks his younger brother if he’d like to get some lunch. Michael remains chilly toward Lincoln, stating pointedly that he has to go back to work.

Lincoln unlocks the door and enters his apartment. Waiting on Lincoln’s couch is Crab Simmons. Lincoln seems unsurprised and hastily assures Crab, “I’m gonna get your ninety grand.” Crab cuts him off. “Relax man, that debt already been paid.” Before Lincoln can question this mysterious statement, a man named Bo walks into the room. He is the one who bought Lincoln’s debt. Lincoln tells Bo that he’s still going to need some time to get the cash. Bo dismisses Lincoln with a shrug, knowing Lincoln will never be able to get the ninety thousand he owes. Instead, Bo offers, “let’s talk about what you can do for me…”

Cocktails flow in an upscale Chicago bar. Young and wealthy business men and women laugh over drinks while Vice President Reynolds speaks on the many flat panel televisions hanging on the walls. Michael sits at the bar with a coworker. They are interrupted by Veronica, who leans against the bar with an affectionate smile for her old friend Micheal. It’s been some time since the two have seen each other. They don’t chat long before the conversation inevitably turns to Lincoln. Veronica asks how Lincoln has been, and Michael is struck by the fact that she and Lincoln haven’t spoken. Michael takes a deep breath and slowly replies, “He’s umm…he’s…Linc.”

Meanwhile, back in Lincoln’s apartment, the conversation grows heated. Lincoln stands his ground, “I don’t care who the guy is, I ain’t killing no one.” But Bo doesn’t care what Lincoln wants.

Across the street from Lincoln’s apartment, another man watches the scene through a high-power telephoto lens. He speaks into an ear mic, describing Lincoln’s appearance in detail: “ Black leather jacket. Two buttons down the front. Three on each sleeve. One missing on his left, no, right arm. Jeans. Faded. Stain on the right knee.”

Back with Lincoln, Bo hands over a piece of paper with an address written on it. Bo says, “Think of this as a ninety thousand dollar bullet. You start fresh.”

Michael and Veronica stumble into his apartment. It’s late, they’re tipsy, and Veronica leans on Michael as she slips off her high heels. She tips forward into Michael’s embrace, and suddenly an unexpected attraction begins to simmer between them. Veronica slides her hands down to Michael’s and the two lean in to kiss. But before it goes any farther, Michael’s cell phone rings. Michael reaches in his pocket, and pulls out his phone. The caller I.D. reads, “LINCOLN.” Michael sighs. Veronica asks if he’s going to answer it, he replies, “He’ll leave a message…he always does.”

Lincoln leans against a street lamp, leaving an urgent message for his brother. “ Michael, it’s Linc. I need your help, bro. I’m in something real bad and can’t get out of it. I need you to straighten me out, my head’s all messed up. And, anyway, it’s real important bro, you gotta call me. You gotta call me now.” Lincoln snaps his phone shut with a desperate glance around the empty streets.

Michael and Veronica look into each other’s eyes, a sensual charge hanging in the air between them. Michael whispers, “We can’t do this.” Veronica knows he’s right. Michael calls for a cab to pick her up.

Lincoln lingers by the lamp post waiting for Michael’s call. When it doesn’t come, his demeanor changes and he storms toward the opening of a parking garage, a handgun tucked behind his back.

Lincoln stands against a pillar in the garage steeling himself in preparation for what he has to do. He turns and stalks purposefully toward Terrence Steadman’s silver BMW. He raises the handgun and points it towards the driver’s seat, but he does not fire. He looks in shock to see that his mark is already dead. A bullet wound is evident behind his ear and blood covers the interior of the windshield. Lincoln lowers the gun and looks around.

Inside a surveillance truck, Agent Kellerman and Agent Hale sit behind several monitors while a technician tweaks the picture on screen. Hale asks Kellerman, “Did we get it?” Kellerman replies, “I believe we did, partner.”

Lincoln sprints through the streets, trying to get as far away from the garage as possible. He rounds a corner into an alley where several people loiter outside a club. Lincoln collides with a man standing outside as he runs by. The man yells something in Spanish as he’s jostled by Lincoln. When he turns around, it is Fernando Sucre looking down the street after Lincoln. He stands with his cousin Manche Sanchez and Hector, unaware of who who just knocked into him, and of the fact that their paths will cross again.

Sucre then looks across the way to a group of girls outside the club. His eyes land on Maricruz Delgado. “Oh my God,” he mutters. Sucre smiles to her, and Maricruz bashfully smiles back. Hector notes this subtle flirtation.

Dr. Sara Tancredi marches through the halls of a local hospital. A passing resident tells her, “They’re waiting for you in 4B.” She tells the resident she’ll be there in a moment, but doesn’t break her stride into a medical supply closet. She swipes her access card and finds herself alone in a secured section where the narcotics are stored. She reaches for the drugs, her movements quick but confident. She quickly fills a hypodermic needle with morphine, and then ties a piece of cloth around her upper arm to find the vein. Sara sticks the needle in her arm, then presses the plunger down. The morphine races through her veins and Sara’s head tilts back in ecstasy.

Half-way across the world, the sun beats down on the war-torn roads of the Al-Jaber Air Base in Kuwait. Sweat soaks First Sergeant

Benjamin “C-Note” Franklin’s face as he watches soldiers unload coffins from the back of a supply truck.

C-Note stands in a tent before his commanding officer, Commander Meyers. He removes the lid to a coffin at the Commander’s feet. Instead of revealing a body, the coffin is filled to its capacity with beer and ice. The Commander smiles. “Alright, well, a deal’s a deal. Prison guard detail. Away from the front. Safest place you can be.” He hands C-Note his transfer papers.

Veronica hurries through the cubicles of Middleton, Maxwell & Schaum, the architectural firm where Michael works. She finds him in his office reviewing blueprints. Veronica’s demeanor is far from the flirtatious old friend from the previous night. She asks, “Have you been watching the news?” Concern darkens Michael’s face when she gravely tells him, “It’s Lincoln.”

Now wearing an orange jumpsuit, Lincoln slumps behind the glass in the prison visitation area. Michael furiously grills him. “Terrence Steadman? The Vice President’s brother. Do you have any idea what they’re going to do to you?” Lincoln says he didn’t do it, but Michael is unconvinced. The evidence is already heavy against Lincoln: Not only did he know and work for Steadman, but Steadman personally fired Lincoln recently after an altercation in the parking garage. Further, it has come to light that Lincoln had a hefty debt to repay, and it so happens that Steadman was a very wealthy man. Sounds like motive to Michael. Lincoln says he is not a murderer, but Michael asks if that’s the truth, then why was he even in the parking garage? Michael has Lincoln against the ropes, and continues, “Honestly Linc, I don’t know how it’s come to this. And you can’t keep blaming Mom for dying, and Dad for leaving because I was there too. Difference is, I got out. Mom had life insurance and I took my half and put myself through school. What’d you do with your half, Linc?”

In the Vice President’s office, Agent Brinker reviews the speech the VP will deliver in reaction to the murder of her brother. Brinker makes no attempt to mask her role as puppeteer, coaching the VP on her every word and gesture throughout the speech. The Vice President asks Brinker, “And where are we with Governor Tancredi?” Brinker says he won’t be a problem.

Michael walks with Veronica through the halls of Middleton, Maxwell & Schaum, speculating the various illegal reasons Lincoln might have for owing someone ninety thousand dollars. Veronica urges him to speak about his brother with a little more compassion, but Michael can find nothing redemptive about his criminal brother. Veronica finally turns and snaps that she promised Lincoln she’d never reveal this, but it is time Michael knew what the ninety thousand dollars was for. She tells him, “The money you got when you were eighteen from your mother’s life insurance ? The money that paid for your degree? Which got you this job? Which pays for your loft? Your mother never had life insurance. That money came from Lincoln .” Michael doesn’t believe her, and she explains that he borrowed it, even though he knew he might never be able to pay it back. Veronica continues. “Michael. You are were you are because of your brother.” Michael replies, “And you’re telling me he is where he is because of me.”

Michael sits across from Lincoln in the prison holding area, his tail between his legs. Michael reveals that Veronica still cares deeply for Lincoln, and that she told him what Lincoln did to help him. Michael wants to get down to business and help his brother. Lincoln tells Michael he needs to forget about the situation and move on, keep making a life for himself. But Michael can’t do that. Michael says “Here’s the part that I don’t understand…All the evidence is lining up in a path that leads directly to you. They say they’ve got you on tape...pulling the trigger. If you didn’t kill Terrence Steadman...how the hell did someone make it look like you did?”

As Michael struggles with this mystery, a man sits at a computer in a media room, editing video. A massive green screen is draped behind him. Over his shoulder, Agent Kellerman watches his work on an image of Lincoln firing his weapon into the BMW. “Perfect,” Kellerman tells the video editor. The doctoring of the security video is nearly complete.

Sucre, Manche, and Hector walk down a snow covered alley. Sucre is lovestruck, bragging about how “perfect” Maricruz is. His crew says she’s an uptown girl; he can’t afford to take a girl like that out. Hector asks him how he’s going to be able to afford to have dinner with her at a nice place.

A liquor store clerk reads a magazine at the counter. Suddenly, Sucre charges in with a gun raised. “Open the drawer!” The clerk rushes to get the drawer open. He holds a handful of cash out for Sucre to take. Sucre tips his head a little and says, “Actually…this is all I need,” as he almost apologetically removes a single hundred dollar bill from the bunch. He dashes out of the store. The clerk stands alone, slightly baffled by what just happened.

C-Note now covers his post inside a military prison. He strides down the hall and halts when he hears the muffled sounds of screaming. C-Note looks around and slowly moves toward the sound. He turns a corner, and the screams are much louder. He pauses and sees an Iraqi prisoner, sitting naked on a chair with a black cloth covering his face and electrodes strapped to his body. A nearby soldier monitors the electric currents. C-Note stands in shock, horrified by the torture heis witnessing.

Late at night, Michael sits in his office. He looks over his brother’s police report, and seems ready to give up. Michael slides open a drawer, and buried under papers and blue prints, is an old origami crane.

Sara and her boyfriend, Colin, stumble down the residential streets of Chicago. Sara sings in a drugged haze that she brought Colin drugs from the hospital, and she hands him three sterile hypodermic needles. Colin tells Sara he’s amazed that she can work there, and Sara replies, “I like to help people.” A teenage boy rides quickly by them on his bike. Sara and Colin drag on down the sidewalk. Sara turns and kisses Colin. Suddenly, squealing tires breaks them apart. Sara mutters, “Oh my God,” and walks in a daze down the middle of the street. A crowd gathers around a teenage boys who has been struck by a car. A woman hovers over the boy begging for help. She looks up and sees Sara approaching and her hospital I.D. clipped to her bag. She asks Sara if she’s a doctor. Sara says nothing, and stumbles back in a foggy cloud, too disoriented to help the boy dying in front of her. Colin pulls her away, but she can’t take her eyes off the boy’s body.

C-Note marches before Commander Meyers and salutes, the Commander asks him to be at ease. C-Note tells Meyers that the whiskey he requested won’t arrive for another couple days, but Meyers has other matters he needs to discuss. C-Note filed a prison abuse report. Meyers needs to know how far C-Note intends to take the report. C-Note, a true patriot, tells his superior that he believes prisoners should not be treated poorly. C-Note tells Meyers, “What I saw was wrong. And someone needs to responsibility for it.” Meyers pauses, and two military police officers enter the tent. Meyers orders the MPs, “Please take Mr. Franklin into custody.” C-Note is stunned and demands to know why. Meyers says that C-Note will be dishonorably discharged “for engaging in illegal black market activity.” The MPs drag C-Note from the tent.

A judge bangs his gavel. He asks the jury in Lincoln’s case if they have reached a verdict. Lincoln stands. “We find the defendant guilty.” Lincoln is crushed, as are Michael and Veronica, who are sitting in the gallery. When the judge finishes, two bailiffs take Lincoln from the courtroom. Michael apologizes to Lincoln as he passes.

Sucre and Marizcruz lie in bed in a loving moment of intimacy. Maricruz gazes at Sucre and asks him what he wants from the future. Sucre tells Maricruz all he wants is her.

C-Note and his brother-in-law, Darius, stand at one of Chicago’s many “L” stations. C-Note is now in civilian clothes, and frustrated because he can’t get a job, especially with the dishonorable discharge on his record. Darius wants to know how long he can keep lying to his sister, C-Note’s wife, Kacee. Darius tells C-Note that he can get him “work,” but C-Note doesn’t want anything to do with it. Darius says all C-Note needs to do is drive a truck from one point to the next. C-Note is unsure, but he’s desperate.

Michael sits at the prison holding cell window again, rattling off the mistakes Lincoln’s defense counsel made during his trial: they never had Leticia Barris testify, the first cop on the scene changed his story… But Lincoln is defeated and tells Michael to move on. Michael pauses, then tells Lincoln, “after Mom died, and it was just you and me, I remember having trouble sleeping, never knowing where you were. But when I’d wake up in the morning, there’d be this paper bird, an origami crane, sitting next to my bed. I never knew what it meant, but I knew it was your way of letting me know that you had checked in on me. Anyway I looked it up. The Crane. It stands for familial obligation; standing watch out for your own. Maybe it’s my turn to watch out for you.” Michael places the old crane on the table. Lincoln tells him that tomorrow they’re moving him to a prison, a place called Fox River. Michael’s eyes light up, “Fox River?” he asks.

Susan Hollander, a gentle, middle-aged mother of two is preparing dinner at home while her son and her daughter set the table. Her daughter Gracie asks why there’s an extra place setting. Susan tells her children that “mommy’s friend is coming over for dinner again.” The doorbell rings and she asks them to go wash their hands. She takes one more look at herself in the mirror, then opens the door to Theodore Bagwell. In a pressed, collared shirt and khakis, he stands behind the gated door with bags full of food and a smile so genuine, one would never guess he was the same man known as T-Bag inside Fox River. “Evening, Mrs. Hollander,” He says with a warm smile. “Don’t you look lovely this evening.”

Michael makes his way through the Middleton, Maxwell & Schaum offices late after working hours. He continues to check his back as he makes his way to a file cabinet. He squats down and opens a drawer labeled, “FOX RIVER.” He grabs several plastic tubes full of blueprints and steals away.

Sucre, Hector and Manche stand in the backyard of an apartment complex. Sucre proudly beams, “I’m gonna do it.” He’s going to propose to Maricruz. Hector laughs, knowing that there’s no way Sucre can afford a ring. Sucre is insulted but Hector says, “I’m trying to protect you. You think you’re gonna be able to give her everything she wants?” Sucre is hurt. He loves Maricruz. Manche puts his arm around Sucre, “Seriously Primo, how are you going to afford a ring for a girl like that?”

The same store clerk from before sits at the counter, reading a magazine. Sucre slowly approaches the counter, much less aggressive than last time. The clerk opens the drawer and hands Sucre a single one-hundred dollar bill. Sucre politely tells the clerk, “Actually…I think I’m gonna need a little more this time.” The clerk hands Sucre all the cash. Outside, the cops are already arriving. Sucre is busted. In the dark, across the street from the store, Hector watches, the number 911 is still on his cell phone.

The Vice President sits in her office, Kellerman next to her. She wants to know if everything is on track with Lincoln’s case. Kellerman tells her that everything is quiet and no one is making noise. The Vice President confides in Kellerman, “God, I can’t remember the last time I was this much of a nervous wreck.” Kellerman hands the Vice President a real estate listing for a secluded piece of property in Blackfoot, Montana.

Sara sits in a community center, surrounded by fellow recovering addicts. She’s a different person now, stronger and free of drugs. She speaks about getting her life back on track, and thinks the best thing for her to do right now is to get back to work. “I want to help people to get from where I am to where I’ve been.”

After the meeting adjourns, Sara fills a paper cup with coffee. She is approached by a quiet, almost shy man who we recognized as Captain Brad Bellick. “Hey Sara, you used to be a doctor, right?” He says he might know of a job opening where he works, at Fox River. Sara is interested to hear more, and Bellick stutters nervously as he asks her to dinner. Sara, smiles politely and tells him that she’s working on her resume that night. Bellick tries to hide his disappointment from the rejection.

Inside Michael’s apartment he looks over a massive blank wall. In the center is a newspaper clipping about Lincoln’s case. He opens the plastic tubes and unrolls blueprints of the cell block.

C-Note drives a truck through the night. He looks over at photo of his wife and daughter, not happy about what he’s doing but knows it has to be done. Suddenly, police cars pull up along side the truck. C-Note knows he’s busted.

Theodore sits at the dinning room table with Gracie Hollander, helping her with her multiplication tables. He shows her a trick to remember and Gracie excitedly catches on and dances away. Susan whispers, “Thank you,” to Theodore. She kisses him and then heads into the kitchen. Theodore turns to watch the kids. While in the kitchen, Susan turns around and sees a crime stopper style show on television. The show host stands next to a graphic of Theodore Bagwell’s mug shot. Susan stands frozen, suddenly aware of the monster sitting in the living room with her children.

Michael continues assembling information on his apartment wall. Index cards cover blueprints of the pipes in the prison’s underbelly and he tries to memorize the route he’ll need to take to break out of Fox River. As the night continues, Michael grows more and more frustrated with every wrong turn he makes. The doorbell rings, giving Michael a much needed break from the project. He opens the door for a delivery girl. He hands her some money and sees that her arms and chest are completely covered in tattoos. Michael smiles and thanks her.

C-Note walks into his house to find his wife and daughter reading together on the couch. C-Note looks with love and regret at them until Dede sees him and jumps into his arms. Darius walks in the door behind him. After a moment of hesitation, C-Note tells Kacee that he’s being shipped back to Iraq: his unit is being called back for another tour. Darius interrupts the moment and asks if C-Note can help him out back. Behind the house Darius tells C-Note that pretending he’s back in Iraq is crazy. But C-Note knows Darius will take care of Kacee and Dede. C-Note says that Darius owes C-Note for driving the truck and taking the rap for it.

Michael sits at his desk, laying tracing paper on top of the Fox River blueprints. The first layer maps Michael’s route through the pipes, the next later is the design for the demon holding the sword piece of his tattoo. Scattered across his desk are sketches for other tattoo pieces, including “ALLEN SCHWEITZER,” “CUTE POISON,” and a mysterious piece, “boLshoi booze.”

In a rustic bar south of the Mexican border, Michael stands next a to shady looking man. The man probes Michael, “Why do you want to…” But Michael cuts him off, “I want what I want.” The man sizes Michael up and smiles. He then slides him a piece of paper and tells Michael, “You show this to anyone else, and I’m calling the whole thing off.” Michael smiles, on the paper are the words, “boLshoi booze.”

Back on Michael’s desk, another piece is shown, bold letter spells, “RIPE CHANCE WOODS.”

Michael stands in a cemetery with a shovel, the ground covered with snow. He stares down at the headstone for a moment, then hoists the shovel up and smashes it into the earth.

In his loft, Michael’s hands scan the now covered wall. Newspaper articles, blueprints and note cards have created a complex web. Items that stand out are articles about John Abruzzi, an ad for “Czechoslovakian Brides,” and a history of Warden Pope. Michael writes, “PUGNAC” on a sticky note, and presses it to a copied article full of chemical compounds.

Susan Hollander sits in the visitation room of Fox River. On the other side of the glass is Theordore “T-Bag” Bagwell. Susan tells T-Bag that her therapist told her to confront T-Bag and tell him how betrayed she feels. T-Bag, in a moment of never seen weakness, admits to Susan, “You think you’re the only one who feels betrayed? I loved you, Susan. Real love. For the first time in my life. And then to have you do me like that, to just throw me to the dogs, toss me out the back door like bath water…” Susan cuts him off, “You’re a murderer, Teddy!” As he continues to speak, his face grows cold. He tells Susan that he had changed for her, but when she sent him to Fox River, it was like he was home again. He raises his head and looks her in the eyes, “You know, some day, I’m gonna get out of here. And don’t think I won’t remember what your front steps look like, Susan.” Susan spits on the glass between them, and storms out of visitation.

In the remote woods of Blackfoot, Montana, The Vice President slices up vegetables and places them in a blender. She slowly walks out into the living room and speaks to a man sitting in a large leather chair. “It’s almost over now. Burrows will be dead soon. And then things will start getting back to normal.” She pauses, sensing frustration from the other person, “I know you’ve been through a lot, but I promise you, the worst is behind us.” The man in the chair places his drink on the table, then reaches into another mug containing a set of false teeth. The Vice President walks away, and the man, Terrence Steadman, turns towards her and says drying, “My dear sister, you have no idea what I’ve been through.

Michael stands before a mirror, finishing donning his best suit. In fact, it’s the same suit he will be arrested in during his bank heist. He methodically straightens his tie, his jaw set in a stern resolution. He turns to leave his apartment, but he stops first at a glass table, where his hands hover over two pistols.




Prison Break
Episode 117 "J-Cat"
Airdate: 04/10/2006

Michael spreads glue over another piece of the Warden’s Taj Mahal model. His eyes focused on the task at hand. Pope enters the room, “Hey, that’s looking good!” Michael tells the Warden that the plaster he is adding to the model is increasing the weight of the walls and he is going to have to add more supports. The Warden doesn’t mind as long as the model is finished in time for his anniversary.

Pope then tells Michael a story about a dark Taj Mahal built by the Shah across the way from the current Taj Mahal. Becky, Pope’s assistant, interrupts and informs Pope that Dr. Sara Tancredi is there to see him. Pope asks one of the C.O.s to escort Michael back to his cell. As Michael leaves, he meets eyes with Sara. An awkward moment passes between them, but Pope doesn’t notice.

Once Michael is gone, Pope and Sara walk into Pope’s office. She tells Pope that she’s concerned about the serious burn on Michael’s back. She initially believed that the burn was caused by another inmate, but she later discovered other evidence. She presents a plastic bag containing a scrap of fabric that had been embedded in Michael’s skin. She believes the fabric came from a guard’s uniform. Pope clearly understands the implication.

Back in his cell, Michael sits over a small pile of paper with a poorly drawn sketch on it. He taps his pen in frustration, and finally gives up, crumpling up the paper and throwing it away. Sucre sits on the bunk and asks Michael what he’s doing. Michael replies, “Trying to remember the blueprints. What was lost to the burn. Without them, we'll never be able to navigate those pipes beneath psych ward.” Michael tells Sucre he isn’t having any luck, “It’s like trying to take a test you studied for ten years ago.”

The inmates of A-Wing are scattered around the floor and on the tiers. Bellick marches in and bellows out a call to the P.I. crew. Sucre walks behind T-Bag as a new inmate, Annie the Trannie, saunters out of his cell wearing his shirt tied in a knot around his stomach. Annie’s pants are pulled low, revealing pink, women’s underwear. T-Bag says Annie has been, “tuggin’ on too many pockets.” Sucre asks if she tugged on his. Disgusted, T-Bag replies, “I may be ‘social’ in my own way, but that’s a boundary-line even I won’t cross.”

C-Note walks out of A-Wing in front of Michael. C-Note asks when they’re breaking out and Michael tells him he has one more “hiccup” to work out, “The road map is a little incomplete at the moment.”

In the guard room, Michael continues to try and recreate the map from memory. Sucre asks why he doesn’t try to get under the psych ward again and Michael tells him, “'Cause one, I don't have the guard uniform anymore, which means I can't get across the yard, or past the orderly. And two, even if I did, it's a mess down there.” Michael, growing increasingly frustrated, tells Sucre to stop bothering him.

C.O. Patterson walks into the room, making his rounds. Patterson tells them that they’re work is about done. Bellick is bringing in professionals to install the carpet the next day. The inmates quickly share looks, this is not good. Once Patterson leaves, T-Bag throws down his paint roller, “We got a real problem on our hands, don't we? Them rug monkeys come in here, tear up that carpet... that hole's just gonna be smiling up at them.” Michael tells them that they’ll need to do a patch on the hole with plywood and fast setting concrete. The carpet guys will never notice anything. On the night of the breakout, they’ll just smash through the concrete patch with a sledgehammer.

A C.O. steers Tweener into Bellick’s office. Waiting inside is the giant form of a particularly skanky con. The Con turns his fat, tall and disgusting gaze Tweener’s way. Bellick threateningly says, “Hey Tweener, you met Avocado?” Avocado reaches out with his fleshy, hairy arm and touches Tweener’s chin, “Look, she’s just a baby.” Tweener smacks Avocado’s hand away, and Bellick sends Avocado off. Bellick tells Tweener to sit, then asks for an update on Scofield. Tweener, again, tells him that he hasn’t heard anything. Not what Bellick was hoping to hear. Tweener says he’s trying to find out more, but Michael won’t let him into the P.I. circle. Bellick pauses, an idea forming in his head.

The cons quickly mix together concrete, getting ready to fill the hole. Westmoreland quickly comes in through the front door, “Fire on the line!” The inmates quickly shuffle around and cover the hole, each of them moving with the confidence that has now become their normal routine. Bellick swings the door open, and commends the cons on their work. But there’s a bravado to his body language, “You know, you girls have done such a good job, I thought you might like an extra pair of hands on the crew.” He gives a quick whistle, and in walks Tweener. The cons exchange looks.

Tweener moves about the room. Everyone is uncomfortable with him there. C-Note steps towards Tweener saying, “My brush is all sticking together.” Michael plays along with C-Note’s remark. The others tell Tweener that according to rank, he gets the job of washing the brushes. They pile the gear up on Tweener and send him outside to the shed. Tweener acts like he’s leaving, but once the guard room door is closed, he turns back and tries to listen in on what’s being discussed. Westmoreland busts him for eavesdropping and makes sure Tweener finally makes his way outside.

Agent Brinker and Agent Kellerman move through a busy Secret Service field office. Brinker hands Kellerman a folder which contains a large surveillance image of the man Lincoln saw behind the glass at his execution. Brinker tells Kellerman that it’s the photo of a man who used to work for the Company and went rogue. Kellerman asks what the man has to do with the “situation.” Brinker is forced to admit that the man is Lincoln’s father. Kellerman stops for a moment and asks if the Company knew about the relation. Brinker tells him of course they knew. When Kellerman wants to know more, Brinker shuts him up, “How 'bout stopping with the questions. You're a glorified bodyguard, that's it. Your job's to be seen, not heard.”

Michael kneels next to C-Note, who is mixing the quick dry concrete, and asks how close they are to finishing the patch. C-Note says they’re ready, just as Westmoreland enters, “Got another badge!” he warns. The cons cover the hole and hide the concrete. C.O. Geary tells Michael that Warden Pope wants to see him and tells the rest of the cons to head back to A-Wing. C-Note argues that Patterson gave them until end of day, but Geary sends them out. Sucre whispers to Michael, “We’re dead,” the hole isn’t patched and the carpet installers are certainly going to find it. Michael says he’ll get it done as Geary barks to speed them up.

Lincoln stares at the ceiling of his Ad Seg cell. Stolte gets his attention and tells Linc the Department of Corrections re-filed all the paperwork. The execution is scheduled for Midnight a week from Friday. Linc asks to be let out into the yard. Stolte refuses. Linc just wants ten minutes, but Stolte’s hands are tied. Unless Stolte hears different from the Pope, Linc has to stay in his cell.

Inside Nick Savrinn’s apartment, Nick, Veronica and LJ are going over the medical records that have given Lincoln a stay of execution. Nick is still trying to wrap his mind around the situation and asks “Some guy just walks into the courthouse, drops off medical records, gets Lincoln a stay of execution, then disappears into the cold again.” LJ is frustrated that their trail to the truth has gone cold, “So once again, we have nothing,” he snaps. Veronica tells him that a two-week stay of execution is a step in the right direction, but LJ is tired of waiting around. Frustrated, LJ asks Veronica, “Do you guys really ever think you'll get to the bottom of this? That they'll ever let you get to the bottom of it? These guys they don't exist. You go after them with the law, they just use it against you.” Nick says that the law is the only way to bring them to justice, but LJ doesn’t want to hear that. He wants revenge for the death of his mother. He wants to hurt these people like they hurt him. Veronica and Nick tell LJ to relax, they’re going to just stay sharp and wait for the conspirators to slip up. And that triggers an idea in Nick’s mind, “Maybe they already slipped up. Up at the cabin, in the well.” Veronica, reading Nick’s mind, says, “Quinn…”

Nick, Veronica and LJ trudge through the woods near the cabin and find the well, now covered after Kellerman left Quinn for dead. Nick slides the plywood off the top of the well. They look down to see the bloated, rotting corpse of Quinn. They notice that Quinn’s cell phone is still with the body. They need to get that cell phone. Nick and Veronica quickly turn around and look at LJ.

LJ, with a rope tied around his waist, is slowly lowered into the well by Nick. Once LJ reaches the bottom, he reaches out, cautiously, and grabs the phone. “Okay! I got it!” Before Nick begins to pull him up, LJ looks behind him. Scratched into the well wall is the name, “KELLERMAN,” directly above the name, “O. KRAVECKI.” After LJ gets a good look at the names, he asks to be pulled up.

Escorted by C.O. Geary, Michael turns a corner near Pope’s office. Waiting in the hallway, is Warden Pope who asks for a minute alone with Michael. Pope tells Michael he wants him to be absolutely honest. Pope holds up the plastic bag with the scrap of fabric. “Dr. Tancredi found this embedded in your flesh when she was treating you. Apparently it came from a guard’s uniform. Have you been assaulted by an officer?” Michael turns away, he knows he can’t answer the Warden. The Warden begs Michael for an answer, but Michael keeps quiet. Pope gives Michael one more chance to confess and threatens him with placing him in solitary confinement if he doesn’t explain what happened. Michael’s eyes are wild.

Two C.O.s drag Michael, struggling madly, down the Ad Seg hallway with a third guard leading the way. Michael begs them, “Don’t do this!” but it’s too late. They throw Michael in a cell and close the door. Lincoln hears the commotion and sees Michael being thrown into a nearby cell.

Lincoln dives to the floor of his cell. He whispers, “Michael,” into the drain in the middle of the floor. Michael, hearing his name, looks around his dark cell until he finds the drain. Lincoln asks what he’s doing in Ad Seg. Michael replies, “We’re in a lot of trouble now.” He goes on to tell Lincoln that Pope’s got proof that Michael wasn’t where he was supposed to be. Michael is sure it’s only a matter of time until Pope connects all the pieces. Michael is losing hope in his plan. Lincoln tells Michael that the point of solitary it to break their will. This is no time to lose hope, Michael needs to stay strong. But Michael just stares coldly into the dark as he lays on the floor, muttering, “I put my blood into this.”

C-Note, on a payphone in the prison yard, talks to his wife, Kacee. Trying to cover for the delay in the escape, he tells her that his division isn’t mobilizing for a few more days. Kacee was worried and tells C-Note that she called the Army asking for more information. What they told her contradicts what C-Note is saying. C-Note starts to panic, but then covers by telling Kacee there must be some confusion. He assures her that he’s coming home soon. Kacee doesn’t seem to be buying it. He tells her that it will only be a few more days and he’ll call her when he knows the exact date he’s coming home.

C-Note slams the phone receiver down and walks back to P.I. duty. Sucre quickly walks over and gives C-Note the bad news, “Michael’s in the SHU.” C-Note is fed up, and Westmoreland tries to calm them all down. T-Bag interjects that with Michael in solitary, there’s no one to patch the hole in the floor of the guard room. Westmoreland offers the idea of someone else filling it, Sucre knows he’s the only one that could do the job but doesn’t want to. C-Note, T-Bag and Westmoreland keep pushing Sucre, and they don’t take no for an answer. C-Note ends the conversation by saying it has to happen tonight.

Michael sits in the dark of his solitary cell, eyes glazed and staring up at the ceiling. His mind flashes through layers and layers of blue prints. He’s trying to put the tattoo back together in he head. Lincoln whispers to his brother again, and asks what he’s doing. When Michael replies that he’s thinking about what’s beneath the psych ward, Lincoln tells him he needs to focus on getting out of solitary. Suddenly a hole in Michael’s sleeve catches his attention. He takes the sweatshirt off and stares at it. Then he begins wildly tearing the shirt apart, creating strips of cloth. Lincoln, obviously concerned with what is going on in Michael’s cell, keeps coaxing Michael to talk to him.

Sucre lays on the top bunk, his mind races as he thinks about what he has to do next. He quickly sits up and looks down over the floor of A-Wing. Something catches his attention. Annie the Tranny walks slowly through the crowds. Sucre looks down and smiles.

T-Bag replies to an unheard question from Sucre, “Uh-uh. Absolutely not.” Sucre bargains with T-Bag, if Sucre is the one who is going to be running through the yard at night, in plain sight, then T-Bag is going to have to help out. T-Bag tosses himself on the lower bunk, pouting. Sucre tells him he needs to do what he’s asking for the good of the team.

Annie the Tranny continues to skate around the floor. This time, T-Bag is close on her heels. He reaches out and snaps the back side of Annie’s exposed panties. Annie turns to face T-Bag who forces her up against the cell doors, “I take it you are a party girl.”

LJ washes his hands inside the cabin. His eyes fall on the old cabinet with the secret door. He approaches the cabinet and carefully opens the door, revealing a small collection of guns belonging to Nick’s father. He closes the door just before Veronica walks in. She tells him they are leaving. Veronica heads out the door. LJ takes one more look at the cabinet.

Veronica walks outside and gets in the car with Nick who is trying to get power to Quinn’s cell phone. “We get this thing powered up, we
might have a gold mine of information on our hands.” Nick tries the power adapter in his car, but it doesn’t work. Veronica asks if they’re going to leave Quinn, Nick answers coldly, “You mean the guy who shot me in the back? Yeah…we’re just going to leave him here.”

T-Bag walks down the second tier of A-Wing, towards Sucre and Michael’s cell. Sucre meets him at the entrance. T-Bag leans in and hands him something, then threatens Sucre, “If you tell anyone about this…” Then quickly moves off.

Inside a local diner, a news anchor on the TV rattles off the latest update, “Capitol Hill saw its first deadlock of the term on the Senate floor this morning. The hotly contested energy bill ended up in a 50-50 tie. Which means it will now be up to Vice President Reynolds to cast the deciding vote.” Sara and Katie sitting nearby ignore the TV. Katie is trying to convince Sara she needs to get out more. Katie thinks Sara needs something more than the prison. The conversation turns to the topic of Michael. Katie tries to press Sara for more details and asks if she has any feelings for Michael. Sara admits that she thinks Michael is interesting, even attractive. But at the end of the day, he’s still an inmate. Sara assures Katie that nothing will ever happen between herself and an inmate.

Michael sits on his bed, looking over the scattered mess of cloth strips he has arranged on the floor. He struggles to recreate the missing piece of the map, but his memory of the blue prints is failing him. Michael frantically moves about the floor, trying to fill in the gaps, but it’s just not working. Frustrated, he swings his arms about, scattering the strips of cloth. He stops when his hand is gashed open, and blood slowly trickles to his wrist. Lincoln tries to talk to Michael again and he hears Michael whisper, “I put my blood into this.” Lincoln is confused and worried. Michael, enraged, begins punching his fist against the wall of his cell, harder and harder. Lincoln begins to fear that he’s lost his brother for good.

Sucre stands at the cell door, trying to put himself in the right mindset for what he’s about to do. He slowly turns and moves the toilet, then enters the familiar catwalks. Sucre warily makes his way through the tunnels to the hole in the guard room floor.

Sucre scrambles up into the guard room and quickly pulls the table aside. He hurriedly prepares the hole and begins mixing the concrete. He throws down a piece of plywood the guys had earlier cut to fit the hole and pours the concrete over it. Outside, Sucre hears the jingle of keys as C.O. Stolte makes his rounds. Sucre rushes to finish smoothing the surface of the freshly poured concrete. In his hurry to finish, Sucre slips and knocks over a plastic bucket. After hearing the noise, Stolte pauses outside and walks back to the entrance of the guard room. Sucre rushes to clean up and reset the room.

Stolte opens the door and walks in for a closer look. He passes through the foyer, where Sucre has hidden himself behind spare supplies. Stolte looks around the room and sees the bucket on the floor. Assuming that the bucket fell from the table, he turns and exits. Sucre still waits behind the supplies.

Sucre now moves out the front door and sprints to the corner of the building. He looks around the yard, then makes a dash for the sewer grate that Michael used to gain access to the psych ward. Just as he is about to make it to the grate, the prison flood lights slam on and the alarm fills the prison yard. A C.O. spots him and barks out orders to stop. Sucre immediately throws his hands in the air and drops to the ground begging them not to shoot. Two C.O.s pile on top of Sucre, wrench his arms behind his back and handcuff him.

Bellick confidently paces in his office, Sucre, defeated and dirty, sits with his head down. Bellick puts his feet up and continues to work his scare tactics on Sucre. “You know the State of Illinois doesn’t look too kindly upon inmates who try to escape. Bellick crosses in front of him. He’s stern, straightforward, telling Sucre what happens to cons caught trying to escape. “Charges are filed, they transfer you back to county for three months. You come back here with ten more years added to your bid.” Sucre pleads that he wasn’t trying to escape. Bellick, quickly tires of Sucre’s excuses and charges him. Bellick grabs Sucre’s neck and chokes him against the wall. Sucre, struggling to breath, confesses that he stayed out in the yard and hid under the bleachers until dark because he was waiting for something to come over the walls. Bellick tells Sucre that receiving drugs over the wall will add five years to his time. Sucre again, defies Bellick, “It wasn’t drugs!” Bellick stands Sucre up and orders another C.O. to frisk him. The C.O. finds a package tucked into Sucre’s right sock. He hands it to Bellick who quickly tears it open. Inside, Bellick finds Annie the Tranny’s underwear, but Bellick believes they were from Sucre’s fiancé. Bellick thinks Sucre is crazy, “You risked getting thrown in the SHU -- hell, you risked extra time on your bid, all for a pair of panties?” Sucre continues the act and asks Bellick if he understands. Bellick grumbles, “Sure, I understand,” and slowly moves the underwear across his face.

Two C.O.s then drag Sucre down to Ad Seg and toss him in a cell. Lincoln yells to Sucre through the glass. They try to get Michael’s attention. Sucre and Lincoln loudly call for Michael, hoping for an answer. But Michael stays quiet. Lincoln calls for a C.O. and asks that he check on Michael. The C.O., a little disgruntled by the request, walks to Michael’s cell door and flips open a slot at knee height. He turns his flashlight on and moves it through Michael’s cell. The C.O. seems a little shocked at what he sees. He springs to his feet and immediately calls for medical assistance.

Nick hangs up the phone after tracking down a place where he can purchase a cell phone charger that will work with Quinn’s phone. He tells LJ to stay on the couch. Once Nick and Veronica leave, LJ jumps up from the couch and over to Nick’s computer. He opens a search engine and enters the name, “O. Kravecki.” The search returns an address and phone number for an Owen Kravecki. LJ grabs the phone and dials the number. After several rings, voicemail finally answers. LJ’s eyes grow bigger as he realizes the voice on the message is that of Agent Kellerman. He can’t believe what he’s hearing.

Michael’s cell door slides open. She asks the C.O. to wait outside the cell. Sara slowly enters and sees Michael, hunched over on the floor and holding his injured hand. She then looks up and sees the maze of bloody lines drawn on the wall. Sara reaches down and slowly raises Michael’s head. She flashes her penlight across his open eyes, but Michael doesn’t react. Next, she slowly takes Michael’s hand and checks the wound as he rests his head on her leg. Sara assures him that he’s going to be okay.

Out in the yard, Tweener digs quietly along the fence line, keeping an eye on Westmoreland. Westmoreland stands near C-Note, who is squatting and repairing a piece of the fence. Westmoreland says he hopes Sucre had enough time to finish the job. T-Bag walks up and says they’re about to find out. He points over to the guard room as a carpet installation truck pulls up. Tweener sits off to the side, watching everything that is going down and trying to listen in.

Kellerman is calling in from the field, looking for answers about Lincoln Burrows and his father. The Vice President is vague in her answer, telling Kellerman that her agenda and that of the Company just happened to be the same. Before she hangs up, Kellerman makes her promise that he is working for her and not working for the Company.

As the Vice President hangs up, Brinker enters her office. Brinker has come to talk to the Vice President about the deadlocked energy bill. The Vice President says she understands her part and she will vote no. But Brinker has a change of plans, “Actually, we’re going to need you to vote yes on this one.” This request stuns the Vice President. Brinker tells the Vice President that this isn’t about the vote, it’s about how she’ll look to voters. If she votes in favor of the bill, she will look more like a centrist and be in good standing with the voters during the next election year. Brinker finishes by saying, “Besides, once the bill hits the president’s desk, he’ll veto it, then we'll get precisely what we always wanted anyhow, won't we?” The Vice President sits quietly.

Avocado walks up to the other side of the fence from where Tweener is standing and says, “You probably don’t have a hair on your body, do you?” But before things can escalate, Bellick orders Tweener to his side. Tweener walks to Bellick, the rest of the P.I. crew keeps a close watch on him. Bellick threatens to make Avocado and Tweener cellmates if Tweener doesn’t give Bellick some good information on Michael, and soon. Tweener tells him that the P.I. crew is definitely up to something and it has something to do with the carpet. Bellick leaves Tweener and heads for the guard room.

He swings the door open as two carpet installers are taking measurements. Bellick moves around the room, looking for anything out of the ordinary. Agitated, Bellick barks at the carpet guys to leave. He flips the table over in the center of the room and begins tossing the room. He looks over the bare concrete floor, looking for any sign of tampering.

Sucre and Lincoln sit quietly in their cells. They hear the urgent approach of footsteps and guard keys. Outside their windows, they see the Warden, Sara and a C.O. move quickly into Michael’s cell. Michael now lays in a ball on the floor, his hand bandaged, but with the same blank stare on his face. Lincoln begins yelling Michael’s name. The C.O.s close the outer door of Lincoln’s cell to quiet him down.

LJ walks down a Chicago street holding a piece of paper with Owen Kravecki’s address on it. He finds the house, and walks up the front steps. He looks inside and tries the door, it’s locked. LJ moves around to the backdoor. When it’s locked, he smashes a small pane of glass with the handle of a gun taken from Nick’s cabin. What LJ does not see, is an older woman across the way, watching his every move with concern. LJ reaches through the glass and opens the door.

Michael sits comatose in the psych ward receiving room. Sara stands at the admitting desk, giving Michael’s status to a nurse. A psych ward C.O. unshackles Michael from the bench he is sitting on and leads him into the psych ward. He hands Michael off to another orderly as Sara watches him walk away.

LJ rummages through boxes in Owen Kravecki’s home. Inside the boxes are packages full of beef jerky. LJ examines them, confused. He cautiously checks out the interior of the house, pausing to sift through some mail. Then, LJ sees Kellerman walking up the front steps. LJ runs further into the house to hide. Kellerman enters, throws his briefcase down and looks through his mail. The cocking of a gun hammer slightly startles Kellerman. He turns to face LJ who now has Kellerman square in his sights. LJ looks scared, but determined. Kellerman sighs and brushes LJ off, “Put it down, you’re not a killer, you don’t want to make any rash mistakes here.” But LJ immediately fires the gun, the bullet grazing Kellerman’s neck. Kellerman drops to the ground and LJ advances on him. Kellerman tries to negotiate with LJ, telling him there are ways out of this. He says, “I can help you beat this rap. But if you pull that trigger now, you really will be a killer, and then I can’t help you. I’m government. There are a lot of things I can do for you.” But LJ isn’t listening and screams back, “The only thing you can do for me is die!” LJ pulls the hammer back again as Chicago police cars squeal to a halt outside. An officer outside yells to LJ, “Drop your weapon!” LJ drops the gun and raises his hands.

Tweener, belongings in hand, moves up to the second tier. He’s clearly upset. He begs Bellick, “I did what you said!” But Bellick says he gave him nothing. Tweener continues pleading, but it does no good. Bellick backs Tweener into his cell with his new cellmate, Avocado. “Have at it,” Bellick tells Avocado as he walks away.

Through Kellerman’s window, we see LJ being loaded into the back of a police cruiser. Inside, the cop tells Kellerman that he’s lucky, LJ had a warrant for double homicide. Kellerman plays dumb. He tells the officer that he’s never seen LJ before. When the officer asks Kellerman what he does for a living, Kellerman tells him, “I’m a regional sales manager for a dehydrated meat distributor.” He turns and looks at LJ, busted in the backseat of a patrol car.

And orderly sits Michael down inside the psych ward’s TV room. Michael, still displaying the same vacant stare, now wears a white jumpsuit. When the orderly walks away, Michael blinks and life springs back into his eyes. There’s a conniving look on his face as he stands. As Michael makes his way across the room, various flashbacks remind us of Haywire’s exposure to Michael’s tattoo. Finally, Michael stops and says, “Hello, roomie.” Michael sits before Haywire, who looks into Michael’s eyes. Michael continues, “You were right about my tattoo. It is a path, just like you thought. And I need you to remember when you saw it, Haywire. I need you to remember what it looked like. Do you think you can do that for me?”

Haywire pauses, then looks quizzically at Michael and replies, “Who are you?”

Michael glares back at Haywire, the slightest hint of concern creeps into his stare.




Prison Break
Episode 118 "Bluff"
Airdate: 04/17/2006

Michael sits in the psych ward’s tv room, directly across from him is his heavily medicated former cellmate, Haywire. Michael looks Haywire square in the eye, trying to trigger anything that might jog Haywire’s memory of him. “Scofield. Michael Scofield,” he repeats, but it’s not working. Haywire blinks, looking lost, “Doesn’t ring a bell.” Michael continues by explaining when they met, where they met, and even that he has a tattoo. Frustrated, he asks Haywire, “Do I even look vaguely familiar to you?” Haywire leans in, and eerily examines Michael’s face. “Are you the guy who stole my toothpaste?” Michael smiles at the break through.

A nurse interrupts Haywire and Michael. She presents a tray with small paper cups filled with medication. “Mr. Patoshik.” Haywire pounds down the pills, and tosses the cup back on the tray. She turns to Michael. “Mr. Scofield.” When Michael declines the meds, the nurse pushes the issue. Michael says he’ll discuss the matter with Dr. Sara Tancredi. The nurse then shouts for Carter to “c’mere for a sec.”

Inside Michael and Sucre’s cell, Geary gently flips up the mattresses and does a quick inspection. Bellick tells Geary that Michael has gone “J-Cat” and he’s probably not coming back to his cell now that he’s locked up in the psych ward. Geary then asks about Sucre. Bellick tells him Sucre is in Ad Seg. Geary exits the cell and joins Bellick on the tier. “Middle cell, middle tier. Prime piece of real estate. You thinkin’ what I’m thinkin’? We can promise to keep it a single for a few months, auction it off.” Bellick likes the idea.

One orderly stands behind Michael, threateningly. Another one stands in front of him, holding the pill cup. “Swallow it, or it goes up the rear door.” Michael backs down. He takes the cup, swallows the pills and opens his mouth so the orderlies can confirm the pills are gone.

When the orderlies walk away, Michael removes the pills from his mouth and throws them away. He quickly moves to Haywire, who is staring out a window. “You were right. I did steal your toothpaste. And you drew my tattoo, from memory. I need you to do it again,” Michael pleads. But the meds have kicked in. Haywire’s eyes flit about and he remains silent in a drug induced haze.

Geary stands out on the tier while a hefty, older inmate looks over the inside of Michael’s cell. The inmate offers Geary two-hundred dollars for the cell. Geary agrees. The inmate takes one more look around as he shuffles out, this time, something catches his eye. “Hey man, the toilet’s leakin’.” Geary tells him he’ll put in a work order and have the toilet replaced in 24 hours. After the inmate leaves, T-Bag intercepts Geary on his way out of the cell. He asks Geary “Ain’t that Scofield’s cell?” Geary replies, “Not anymore.” T-Bag watches the water trickle from toilet pipe.

Inside Westmoreland’s cell, Charles holds open an old gold pocket watch. Inside is photo of his daughter. Westmoreland tells C-Note that his wife gave it to him when his daughter was born. Charles turns to C-Note and says, “Outliving your wife’s bad enough. But outliving your daughter... no man should have to endure that.” Charles tells C-Note that his daughter has a week left, maybe two. T-Bag raps his knuckles on the cell door and quietly informs the two about the new inmate moving into Michael’s cell and the work order Geary is putting in to get the toilet fixed. C-Note asks how much Geary is getting for the cell. T-Bag tells him $200. C-Note chides T-Bag, “You actually had me worried there for a second.”

As the cons line up to exit A-Wing, C-Note slides up to Geary and offers to double what Geary is being paid for the cell. Geary tells him he’s getting $250. “Five hundred? Ain’t a problem,” is C-Note’s response. Geary makes sure C-Note understands he wants cash. As C-Note rejoins the line of exiting cons, he assures Geary that it won’t be a problem.

Haywire stands at the window, massaging a piece of clay in his hand. Michael watches him, rolling clay of his own. When the orderly in the room leaves, Michael moves to Haywire. He taps Haywire on the shoulder. Michael has a surprise to show him. He puts his hand on Haywire’s back and guides him into a supply room.

Michael shoves Haywire into the corner, and slowly approaches him. Haywire, confused, asks what’s going on. Michael tells him that he has something in his teeth. Haywire opens his mouth, and Michael forces two of his fingers into the back of Haywire’s mouth. Michael presses his fingers in until he causes Haywire to vomit, removing the pills from his system. Haywire, shocked, asks, “Why’d you do that!?” Michael replies, “I’m helping you. Remember what you used to call those little pills? Invisible handcuffs. Handcuffs on your mind. You hate them. Remember?” Haywire walks out without answering.

A C.O. slides open Lincoln’s cell door in Ad Seg and tells Lincoln he has a phone call, it’s his son and it’s an emergency. Lincoln springs up from the bed.

Lincoln, shackled, huddles down near the ground with the phone pressed to his ear. Lincoln now knows about LJ’s attempt on Agent Kellerman’s life. LJ tells his father, “I don’t care what happens to me
anymore. They won. They always win. I just wanted to take one of ‘em down with me.” Lincoln sighs and asks him to put Veronica on the phone. Veronica tells Lincoln that he’s being charged with attempted murder as well as being arraigned for the murder of his mother and stepfather, and there’s no chance of bail. Veronica adds that she needs LJ to show remorse for his actions, but LJ isn’t listening. Lincoln knows that LJ will listen to him and begs Veronica to do whatever she can to get face time with his son. Veronica says it’s a million to one shot that they would let Lincoln out for a visit, but she’ll do all she can

C-Note marches through the yard looking for another con named Trumpets. He tells him that he needs round up all outstanding debts immediately.

In his car, at a red light, Kellerman leans over and looks at the gunshot wound behind the bandage on his neck. When the light turns green, he heads down the street, when suddenly, several black SUVs surround his car. Kellerman jumps out of his car, as several large, armed men in suits exit the SUVs, led by Brinker. Brinker walks up to Kellerman, “Lincoln’s son, a sixteen year old pothead, managed to track you down and shoot you. You are now a witness in his criminal investigation.” When Kellerman says he can still do his job, Brinker cuts him off and tells him that he is not to make a move on Burrows as he is no longer with the Secret Service.

Haywire’s eyes are fixed on the television. Michael raises his hand and snaps his fingers in Haywire’s face to make him focus. Michael tells Haywire he needs him to remember what he drew. But again, Haywire just quietly stares at him. An orderly comes in and tells Haywire it’s time for group therapy. As they escort him out, Haywire has a moment of clarity and whispers to Michael, “It’s a path!” Michael turns and smiles.

C-Note leans against a building in the yard as Trumpets, followed by several other African-American inmates, walk by. C-Note moves into the line and follows them into a secluded area of the yard. Trumpets and C-Note stand, surrounded by inmates, most of them looking in C-Note’s direction. “Here’s the thing. You got nothin’ comin’. All your outstanding markers, they’re mine now,” Trumpets defiantly tells C-Note. Trumpets refuses to help C-Note now that he’s part of the P.I. crew. C-Note barks that regardless of who he hangs with, he should still get his money. Trumpets doesn’t care, but out of respect for who C-Note used to be, Trumpets offers him the chance to walk away without harm. C-Note smiles, and slowly turns away, then snaps back and punches Trumpets in the face. The other inmates jump on C-Note, beating him with socks full of batteries and kicking him while he’s down.

Another orderly walks around the psych ward TV room, handing out pill cups. Michael watches Haywire down his pills, as he takes a cup of his own. He tips his head back and again pretends to take his pills. When the orderly leaves, Michael spits the pills in his hand. Haywire gets Michael’s attention, then walks to the supply room.

Michael cautiously walks into the room and closes the door as Haywire regurgitates the pills. “You were right, the pills don’t let me see the pathway,” Haywire says. Michael removes the top of his white jumpsuit to let Haywire have a closer look. Haywire’s eyes move over the tattoo. “I remember,” he whispers.

C-Note carries his lunch tray to a table where Westmoreland and T-Bag are sitting. C-Note’s face is badly bruised and he holds his back as he gingerly walks toward the table. He slowly sits and tells them they’re going to need to find another way to get the money. T-Bag suggests that getting money wouldn’t be a problem for D.B. Cooper. Westmoreland brushes off T-Bag accusation and tells them that there is no visitation today, so there’s no way to smuggle money in from the outside. T-Bag tells them that they’re left with one last option, “The Kitchen Game.” C-Note, T-Bag and Westmoreland look over to Jesus, and a couple other inmates, shuffling through playing cards at their table. C-Note is dubious of getting the money by gambling. T-Bag assures him when he says, “Son, when I play cards, trust me, it ain’t gambling. There’s maybe five people in the country that can do what I do with a deck of cards.” But, he warns, if they’re caught cheating, the kitchen is a bad place to be with all those knives lying around. And they’re going to need fifty dollars just to enter, so they’re still in a catch 22. Charles hangs his head, he knows where he can get the money.

Michael pushes Haywire into his cell and hands him a sketch pad and pencil. Michael turns and removes the top to his jumpsuit and the bandage covering the wound. Michael tells Haywire that he needs to remember the piece that was there. Haywire excitedly jumps to work, “I remember the demons. Or maybe they were pilgrims... pointing. Pointing toward the way, saying, “This is the way! This is the way!” But his memory isn’t completely clear yet, and Michael is running out of time. In the hall, Manche walks by, pushing a laundry cart. Michael tells Haywire he’ll be right back.

Michael whispers to Manche, “I need you to get a message to Sucre. Tell him I’m okay. And that I’m trying to fill in the blanks. He’ll know what it means.” Manche repeats the message.

Michael turns and sees Haywire furiously sketching the missing piece of the tattoo. But, Manche is still hovering in the doorway, and sees the burn on Michael’s back. Suddenly, everything makes sense to Manche. The burn on Michael’s back fits perfectly with the burned hole in the guard’s uniform that Sucre returned.

Geary escorts Westmoreland up to Michael’s cell and asks why he’s suddenly interested in the new real estate, “Second story units like this don’t come on the market too much. Figure since I’m getting on in age, maybe it’s time I retired in comfort,” he tells him. Westmoreland looks around and sees the bible he passed to Michael in the chapel. Inside is the one hundred dollar bill he used to prove to Michael that he was D.B. Cooper. Geary tells Westmoreland to hurry up. When Charles offers a one hundred dollar bid, Geary tells him he wasted his time. As Charles leaves, he apologizes. But Charles got what he came for.

On the A-Wing floor, Charles holds the bible close to him, then passes it to T-Bag. T-Bag opens the book and pulls out the one hundred dollar bill. “That’s your buy in, the rest is up to you,” Charles mutters to T-Bag.

T-Bag turns and slides down to C-Note, who is keeping an eye on Trumpets and his former crew on the tier above him. T-Bag tells him they have the money for the buy in, and he’s going to need C-Note’s help. When C-Note tells him he’s not a card player, T-Bag replies, “All you need to know is this: when I’m dealing, bet big, and never fold. If I’m the one winning every time I deal, I end up with a Colombian necktie, know what I’m sayin’? But if you’re the one rakin’ in all the cash, well, I seriously doubt anyone would ever think you and I are workin’ together.” T-Bag turns and slithers away.

Nick enters a common electronics store. He hands Quinn’s cell phone to a girl behind the counter and asks if she has a charger that works with the phone. She hands the phone back, and goes to look. Nick turns and mindlessly rummages through a small display of phone accessories. As he walks around it, a tall, older man in a trench coat asks, “How you doin’, Savrinn? Where’s your girl?” Nick knows this man, but is very uneasy speaking with him. He tells the man she’s at the courthouse and will be back at his apartment in an hour. The man tells Nick that he shouldn’t have to chase him down for that info and he needs to remember who he works for. He grabs Nick by the scruff of the neck, “You need to keep an eye on Veronica Donovan. Not some of the time. All of the time. Cause pretty soon, we’re gonna call in our favor. Unless you wanna go back on the deal we made.” Nick quietly mutters, “No.” The man then tells Nick they’ll be in touch.

Haywire continues to stare off, his hands tightly wrapped together. Michael taps him on the shoulder, but gets no response. He grabs Haywire’s jaw and asks him if he took his meds. He picks Haywire up and moves him to the supply room again.

Once Michael closes the door, Haywire comes alive and shoves Michael against the wall. He grabs Michael by the throat, “You should be careful when you tell people to remember, Michael. ‘Cause I remember everything now. I remember how you set me up, how you smashed your own head and had me sent back here.” He backs off and removes a rolled piece of paper from his jumpsuit. As he unrolls it, he reveals that he has completed the missing part of Michael’s tattoo. Haywire continues, “And I remember this, the pathway. Your map. Your escape.” Michael lunges for the paper, and Haywire steps back and begins to rip the drawing in half. Michael quietly begs him to stop, then Haywire confidently asks, “Now, do I tear this up, or do you tell me exactly where and when you’re doing this?”

Haywire and Michael hover over his bed inside his cell, and Michael lays out the plan. “It all starts in the basement. This line leads from a hatch in the coal room to this pipe system here. And that runs to the infirmary, and that’s how we’ll get out. I just need to get out of psych ward to set things up. Three days after I’m gone, I’ll come back up through the basement and get you.” Haywire is still suspicious. Michael simply tells Haywire that he needs to trust him. Michael then holds out his hand for the map. Haywire hesitates, then hands Michael the drawing, whispering, “If you try to screw me over again, I’ll kill you.”

Nick sits in his apartment, his mind racing. Veronica enters. She tells him that filing the petition with the Department of Corrections so Lincoln can see LJ was easy, but getting it approved will be the hard part. She sees that Nick found a charger, but didn’t bother to plug the phone in. Veronica plugs it in and the phone lights up, “We’re in business. His entire phone book is still in here, 322 numbers.”

Back behind the kitchen, in the unguarded storage pantry of Fox River, C-Note, T-Bag, Jesus and two other inmates sit around a table. Playing cards and piles of money are scattered about. Jesus calls attention to C-Note, who is still waiting to place his bet. T-Bag does his part to ensure the group doesn’t know he’s working with C-Note, “We ain’t bettin’ on CPT, here. Either you got the balls to see his bet or you can go outside and Million Con March or do whatever it is your people do. Either way, get on with it, son.” C-Note shoves a pile of money forward. Jesus lays down three queens, then calls to C-Note. C-Note throws down a full house. C-Note keeps his poker face and pulls in the kitty.

Kellerman paces inside the Vice President’s living room, briefing her on his encounter with Brinker. He tells the Vice President that the Company’s agenda with Lincoln Burrow and his father is interfering with their agenda of simply having Lincoln executed. The Vice President bitterly replies, “Then maybe it’s time we broke ranks.” Kellerman warns her that the Company will pull their campaign support if she does, but she tells him they never have to know.

T-Bag shuffles the cards and begins to deal. C-Note holds a 6, 7, 8, and 9 of different suits, as he banters with the other players. T-Bag flips a final card to C-Note, but it hits his hand and falls face up and reveals a 10 of diamonds. Zach, the old inmate at the table, smiles and says, “Misdeal, bury the card.” C-Note tries to keep the card, and T-Bag tries to redeal. But the table demands that they bury the card and finish the hand. T-Bag slides the card to the bottom, and deals C-Note a 2 of diamonds. C-Note loses his poker face.

Lincoln’s cell door opens, and Warden Pope enters. Lincoln stands and the Warden gives him good news, “Somehow, your lawyer’s petition
went through. The Department of Corrections is allowing you a one-hour visit with your son.” Lincoln looks relieved. Pope tells him he’s never seen a visit of this nature approved, but he’ll arrange the travel. He tells Lincoln that he’s going to be y-cuffed and surrounded by armed officers. Lincoln assures Pope that there won’t be any problems, he just wants to see his son.

Jesus fans his cards, three 7’s, a 3 and a four. He confidently bets the remainder of his pot, eighty-two dollars. C-Note looks at Jesus, concerned. C-Note stays in, and ups the bet another seventy-four dollars. But Jesus is out of money and can’t raise. Jesus and C-Note stare each other down. C-Note’s raise forces Jesus to fold.

Haywire pulls the sketchbook out from under the bunk and begins flipping through the pages. Each page contains a copy of the tattoo. He tears out a page and looks out the small window in his door. He opens the door and reveals that he’s kept the door from being locked by jamming a piece of clay into the hole where the latch catches the door frame. Then, he moves down the hall to an exit door marked, “BASEMENT.” Haywire pushes the door open and immediately the alarm sounds. Orderlies chase Haywire down. He manages to break free, but before he can get through the door, the orderlies use tasers to bring him down. Michael watches as the orderlies drag Haywire back to his cell.

Westmoreland and C-Note wait for Geary near the pay phones in the yard. C-Note jogs over and passes five hundred dollars through the fence to Geary. When he asks when he can move in, Geary coldly replies, “You don’t.” Geary tells him that the price is now seven hundred dollars and threatens to give the cell away. C-Note then goes to Westmoreland and tells him that he’s going to need his pocket watch. When Charles refuses, C-Note asks, “Listen, would you rather be looking at your daughter in here, or holdin’ her in your arms on the outside?” Charles gives in and hands the watch to C-Note, who then gives it to Geary. But Geary’s scam continues. He tells C-Note, “Problem for you is, someone already gave me seven bills for that cell. So you’re SOL my friend.” C-Note runs along the fence as Geary walks away. Charles is devastated.

Michael folds one of Haywire’s drawings as Sara knocks on his cell door. She smiles, happy to see Michael alert again. The two sit on the bed. Michael smiles and says, “I made you something.” He then hands her a poorly crafted ashtray. She laughs, but steers the conversation back on track. Michael tells Sara that he’s ready to go back to gen pop. Sara tells him that the problem isn’t how she perceives his mental health, but it’s more about keeping the information of who assaulted him from Pope. She tells him that Pope will still place him in Ad-Seg if he doesn’t tell Pope what happened. Sara wants Michael to let her help him, but he has to tell Pope the truth about the burn.

Manche pushes his laundry cart into Ad-Seg. He arrives at Sucre’s cell. He leans down to the slot on the door and passes Michael’s message on to Sucre. When Sucre asks Manche to take a message back, Manche refuses. He saw the burn on Michael’s back and knows he must have been wearing the guard shirt. Manche is done helping them until they come clean about what is going on. From down the hall, Lincoln calls to Manche. Manche, a little scared of Lincoln, moves to Lincoln’s cell door. “I think we can work something out,” Lincoln tells him.

C-Note, Westmoreland and T-Bag sit in the cafeteria, despair on all their faces as they discuss the situation. Manche appears and tells them, “I got a way to help you with your Scofield problem.” T-Bag and C-Note become defensive, grab Manche and slam his head to the table. Manche tells them that Lincoln told him everything and that he’s part of the escape team now. C-Note takes his hand off Manche’s head. T-Bag can’t believe how many people know about the escape now. T-Bag tells Manche to get lost, but Westmoreland holds him in his seat, and tells Manche to talk. Manche tells them Lincoln has a risky plan, but it could work.

Manche strolls around psych ward, picking up dirty art smocks. He moves behind Michael and whispers, “You ready to get out of this aquarium, Fish?”

Manche goes about his day, pressing laundry, picking up the dirty and delivering the clean. Later, Manche pushes his cart towards Westmorland, who is pushing a wheeled trash can of his own. As they pass each other, Westmoreland flips open the lid of his trash can. Manche then tosses something inside.

Charles drags the trash can inside the guard room where C.O. Mack is finishing his coffee. When Mack leaves, Charles opens the trash can and digs inside.

Pope and Michael stand together in the hall. Michael wants to make sure that Pope will protect him. Pope tries to tell Michael that his protection should be a foregone conclusion. “With all due respect, Warden, if I had been protected in the first place, none of this would have happened.” Pope looks for the words to reply with, but can’t find any. He finally asks for a name. Michael fingers Geary. “He shakes cons down for money, anything he can get his hands on. He knew I went to college, so he must’ve thought I was rich or something.” Michael takes another deep breath. This is all so hard for him to relive. And from the look on the Pope, he doesn’t like hearing it one bit. “When I didn’t pay, he held me down with one arm, burned me with the other. I’m not sure what he used, but it was hot as hell.” Pope looks away, taking in what Michael said.

Nick throws the phone down in frustration, another number in Quinn’s phone book is disconnected. Veronica reflects on the addresses of the phone numbers, “Two hundred fifty businesses, seventy-two residences, covering all fifty states, London, Martinique, Jakarta, Dakar. Soon as Quinn disappeared, they must’ve erased the paper trail. I’m talking world wide. In a matter of days. Is there anything they can’t do?” Nick has an idea. He hopes he can send his investigator friend in Washington all of their info and he might be able to get a fix on working numbers. Veronica then thanks Nick for keeping her going and focused.

As Bellick enters the guard room, Geary is reading the newspaper and complaining about some baseball player making millions. Moments later, Pope enters and stands in the doorway. Bellick asks, “Warden. What brings you to our little clubhouse?” But Pope is focused on his mission. He moves straight for Geary’s locker and begins tearing in apart. He picks up a spare pair of boots and pulls out C-Note’s five hundred dollars. But that doesn’t stop him. Pope continues his search. He finds Westmoreland’s watch, then looks back in the locker and finds the burned guard uniform. Geary shakes his head in disbelief.

C.O.s escort Geary, dressed as a civilian now, out toward the prison’s sally port. He approaches Bellick and says, “This is a railroad, I didn’t do nothin’.” But Bellick is quiet, Geary continues, “Don’t look at me like I’m some con. You’re as crooked as scoliosis.” Bellick mutters back, “I don’t get caught.” Geary walks off, and Bellick backs out of the way for an on coming transport van. Inside, Lincoln locks eyes with Bellick as the van pulls through the gates.

As the van passes various Illinois farm fields, Lincoln stares out the window. A guard in the van gives Lincoln the run down of what’s going to happen when they get to their destination.

Nick makes sure Veronica is busy working. He then walks into another room. He flips open his cell and says, “She’s here. I’ve got her.” Then he hangs up the phone.

Michael stands at the entry to A-Wing. Over the P.A. system, we hear, “Scofield, for re-admission to Gen Pop.” Michael walks into his cell. Charles welcomes him home. Michael then gives Westmoreland his pocket watch back, saying Pope wanted to make sure it was returned to him. Charles opens it, puts the photo of his daughter back inside, then closes it and leaves.

Lincoln absorbs the rolling countryside. The transport guard asks, “What the hell are you starin’ at anyway?” Lincoln, smiles and quietly says, “Everything.”

The truck crosses into an intersection, and Lincoln’s eyes grow wild. A giant semi truck blows through the stop sign and slams into the back half of the transport van. The van spins, then flips over, throwing the guards and Lincoln about inside. The van finally comes to rest on its side in a ditch.




Prison Break
Episode 119 "The Key"
Airdate: 04/24/2006

Smoke. Wreckage.

Battered and twisted, the Department of Corrections van lays on its side next to the deserted roadway. Smoke wafts by as we discover the motionless form of Lincoln, bloody and unconscious, lying next to the wreck. For a moment, it’s almost peaceful. Then, Lincoln gasps for air and opens his eyes. A few more labored breaths as his blurred vision slowly reveals what has happened.

Obviously in pain, Lincoln turns his head and sees the headlights of a single car come to a stop on the roadway above.

Lincoln tries to focus on the hazy figure of a man slowly walking from the car. The man walks directly to Lincoln. The man then kneels down next to Lincoln, revealing that it’s Agent Paul Kellerman. Lincoln can only wheeze. Kellerman removes a pair of leather gloves from his pocket, and begins telling Lincoln a story. “I used to have a St. Bernard. Big, loyal. Got cancer when it was twelve. So we had to put it down. You think it'd be this big dramatic event, but it was peaceful. One minute he was breathing and the next he wasn't.” Kellerman covers Lincoln’s mouth with the gloves, then sinks a knee into Lincoln’s chest. Lincoln struggles as best he can, but with the handcuffs still around his wrists and the trauma from the crash, he’s too weak to fight off Agent Kellerman.

As Lincoln squirms under Kellerman, fighting to stay alive, another car pulls to a stop along the side of the road. A man shouts as he gets out of the car, “Hey, do you need me to call 911?” Kellerman takes his hand off Lincoln’s face as the would-be Good Samaritan approaches. Lincoln gulps for air. The Samaritan, his face concealed by a baseball cap, continues to comment on the condition of the van as he removes a fire extinguisher from his trunk. Kellerman’s face sinks, he doesn’t have time for this. Kellerman stands and reaches for the gun tucked in his waistband. The Samaritan walks past Kellerman, toward Lincoln. Kellerman tries to draw his gun, but before he can—BAM! With a vicious swing of the fire extinguisher, the Samaritan lands a brutal blow to the side of Kellerman’s head. Lincoln, losing consciousness, looks up to see the Samaritan dragging him away from the wreck. Kellerman lies in the ditch, unconscious from the blow.

Sucre steps out into the daylight of the Fox River Yard, free from doing his time in Ad Seg. He excitedly moves across the yard toward the handball courts, where Manche greets him with open arms. Michael embraces his cellmate, but T-Bag wants to get down to business. Michael tells them he was able to get what he needed and has completed the map. Michael now knows his way through the psych ward, but there’s still one obstacle that could keep them from getting into the infirmary. Instead of being able to come up through the floor of the infirmary, which was the original plan, the cons now have to make their way down a 30-foot hallway and through the infirmary door. All they need now are the keys to the infirmary. C-Note isn’t worried. He thinks all they’ll need to do is steal a set of keys from a C.O. Unfortunately, it won’t be that easy. Michael informs them that only the medical staff have keys to the infirmary. T-Bag wants to know how Michael plans on getting the keys. Michael response is, “Carefully.”

Westmoreland then steps away from the group. He’s staring at something. “Jesus, Mary, and Joseph,” he mutters in shock. The cons follow Westmorland’s gaze though the fence and see a Department of Corrections bus unloading Fox River’s newest guests. Packed in the middle of the shuffle is a familiar face. The face of John Abruzzi.

Back from the “dead,” John Abruzzi slowly walks in line, making eye contact with the escape crew. T-Bag’s jaw drops, as if he’s seen a ghost.

In the mess hall, Abruzzi sits alone at a table, praying over an open Bible. Michael walks up and greets him. John stands and embraces Michael as if he were a long lost friend. Wary, Michael asks John how he is. “Any day above ground is a blessing, thanks be to God,” is Abruzzi’s response as he invites Michael to sit with him. John says he’s surprised Michael is still there. Michael tells him there were a few setbacks. Michael cuts to the chase asking, “How does the idea of escaping sit with the new you?” John replies that the old sinner deserved to be in Fox River, but his new soul deserves to be free. Michael then wants to know if Abruzzi can still provide a plane. John’s cryptic response is, “Noah had his ark, did he not?”

T-Bag watches Michael and John from across the hall, he’s clearly nervous. He leans toward a rough looking inmate eating with him, “I’m gonna need a blade. Pronto.”

Pope paces his office, news of the hit and run on Lincoln’s transort is sinking in. Pope asks Bellick for the facts. Bellick confirms Lincoln is missing, two officers are dead, and one is in critical condition. Pope snaps nervously at Bellick, “Forty years in corrections and this is how they’re gonna remember me.” Bellick assures the Warden that no one has to know yet. Bellick wants four hours to try and get Lincoln back before they formally notify the Depart of Corrections. Pope is resistant. Bellick is worried that going by the book is going to get them all fired. He urges Pope not to go by the book this time. Pope looks intensely at Bellick, “Find him.”

A black Mustang drives through a junkyard. The car drives to a secluded corner and pulls in, out of sight. The mysterious man who helped Lincoln earlier gets out of the car and walks around to the passenger side. He opens the door and gently eases the still unconscious Lincoln out of the car.

Nick drops another box full of paper onto the coffee table of his apartment. Veronica sits before stacks of paper, flipping pages, “The records of every phone call to and from every contact stored in Quinn’s cell phone.” Nick tells her that finding something in all this paperwork will take forever, that it’s likely just a waste of time. Frustrated, Veronica wants to know what’s wrong him. She says it seems like he wants to quit. Nick assures her he doesn’t want to quit. Veronica then throws a stack of paper in his lap saying, “let’s get to it then.”

Michael waits outside one of the examination rooms in the infirmary. As Nurse Katie leaves the room, Michael catches the closing door and quickly locks the door from the inside. He then presses it shut. Dr. Tancredi approaches and says good morning to Michael. They each smile at each other as she reaches out to open the door. Finding it locked, she reaches into her pocket and takes out the key. Michael watches her unlock the door, taking note of which key she uses.

At the scene of the van accident, Police and EMT personnel do their thing while Sheriff Nate Ballard discusses the situation with Bellick. Ballard isn’t sure how long he can keep a lid on this thing. Bellick reminds the Sheriff they’ve known each other a long time. Then, a little too urgently, tells Ballard he needs this. Ballard concedes and tells Bellick he’ll be in constant contact. Bellick’s attention then turns to Kellerman, whose fresh head-wound is being attended to in the back of an ambulance. Bellick moves to Kellerman to ask a few questions of his own. Kellerman says his name is Roy Hawkings. Obviously in a hurry to leave, Kellerman stands and heads for his car. Bellick asks where he’s going. Kellerman says he’s late for a meeting in Aurora. Bellick asks where he was coming from. Kellerman, still woozy from the blow to the head, just wants to get out of there. He tells Bellick he was coming from Chicago. Bellick points out that he chose a pretty indirect route to get to Aurora. Kellerman shrugs and says he’s not from around here as he makes his way to his car. Once inside the car, Kellerman immediately reaches down and turns up the volume on his police scanner to track the progress of the search for Lincoln.

Michael sits shirtless on an examination table as Sara goes about cleaning the burn on his back. She turns and throws away the used gauze. As she turns back to Michael, their eyes meet. The moment is electric. Sara is caught off-guard as Michael slowly leans in and kisses her tenderly. She doesn’t pull away. Instead, she moves closer and the kiss heats up. She holds his face, their attraction too intense to ignore. Then slowly, Sarah pulls away. An awkward silence as Sarah takes a breath to compose herself. She looks into his eyes and asks, “What do you want from me, Michael?” Michael is clearly conflicted as to how he should answer. Then, he catches sight of the keychain hanging from Sara’s lab coat. He needs those keys, but he can’t deny his feelings for her. He asks her to wait for him. He tells her, “It won’t always be like this.” She steps away from him, realizing the truth of their situation. Finally, she says she can’t. Just then, an orderly walks into the room, oblivious to Michael and Sara’s encounter. Sara steadies herself, then hurries out of the room.

Tweener walks into his cell and the door closes behind him. He tucks into the corner of the cell as Avocado sits up on the upper bunk. Tweener tries to buy off Avocado, hoping to avoid what Avocado is about to do to him. But Avocado declines, saying, “You only got one thing I need.” Avocado then drops the sheet hung over the cell doors so no one can look in. Tweener realizes he’s in for a rough night.

The next day in the yard, Tweener sits against one of the massive prison walls. He’s feeling very trapped as the abuse is taking its toll. Michael approaches him carefully, and sits next to him. Michael tells Tweener he needs another bump and swipe, similar to when he got Michael’s watch back from Geary. But Tweener is angry. He was busted for the watch and that’s what led to him getting stuck in a cell with Avocado. Tweener tells Michael that if he wants something done, he has to do something in return. Tweener looks over to Avocado, who’s lounging in the yard, and mutters, “Kill that son of a bitch.” But Michael tells him that’s not something he can do. Tweener blurts out, “Screw Honus Wagner.” Michael doesn’t catch what Tweener is talking about. Tweener tells Michael that he stole a baseball card collection from another kid’s father to get some party cash. But there was a 1910 Honus Wagner card in that collection. It was worth three hundred thousand dollars, and that made the crime grand larceny. Tweener fights back tears as Michael’s head sinks.

Lincoln begins to regain consciousness in the cluttered junkyard garage. The man with him sees this and moves around the car to help him. Lincoln looks up at the figure standing over him. His eyes finally focus, allowing Lincoln to recognize the man. Wearily, Lincoln simply says, “Dad?” It’s an uncomfortable reunion. Lincoln wants to know what his father is doing there. His father tells him that he’s going to make sure Lincoln disappears for good this time. He goes on to explain that he worked for the Company. Lincoln wants some answers. He wants to know why his father left. His father tells him that the Company made it clear: if he wanted to rise in the ranks, he’d have to leave everything behind. This was to protect his family. Lincoln is skeptical. He tells Lincoln that he regrets his decision to leave everyday, but he couldn’t come back. That’s why the Company came after Lincoln, to flush out the father.

Michael, on one of the yard pay phones, begs Nika to trust him. Nika tells Michael that she can’t help unless he tells her what is going on. He can’t. Nika reminds Michael that she held up her end of their deal, a green card for the credit card. That’s all. Michael asks her for a new deal, but she doesn’t want him to be in anymore trouble than he already is. She says she doesn’t know why he’s in there, but she advises him to stop fighting. Michael asks her to think about it. Nika just says she’s sorry and hangs up.

Veronica highlights another page in a packet of documents, “There it is again, the 406 number. It’s on every listing.” Nick notes that more than two hundred businesses and another hundred residences in seventeen countries are calling that number. Veronica tracks the 406 area code on her computer, “This doesn’t make sense. All these people from all over the world, are calling this place in the middle of nowhere with a population of 42. Blackfoot, Montana.”

Terrence Steadman places his false teeth in his mouth and picks up a cordless phone. Inside a limo, thousands of miles away, the Vice President’s phone rings. She tells Terrence that if he wants to talk, he needs to set up a face to face meeting. But Terrence continues on, telling his sister that he’s seen her latest polls and that her numbers are dropping. The Vice President tries to hang up, but Terrence insists on carrying on the conversation. The Vice President tells her brother that the “only reason you’re still alive is because I won’t let them kill you.” Bitterly, Terrence fires back, “Yeah, I’m pretty clear on that. But the thing I can’t quite figure is, with the crap storm this thing’s become, why they haven’t killed you.” The Vice President waits a moment, then hangs up.

Michael walks the yard alone, his mind heavy with events of the day: Sara and the infirmary, Nika’s refusal to help. He leans his head against a chain link fence. When he looks up, he sees Sara and nurse Katie walking between buildings. Sara passes, making eye contact with Michael. She catches herself and bashfully turns her head away. Sucre then walks up and asks Michael if he’s figured out how to get the key to the infirmary. Michael says, “Not quite.” Sara takes one more look back at Michael. Sucre notices this and asks, “Are you workin’ a game on her, or what?” Michael, unsure himself, replies that he doesn’t know.

T-Bag shaves in his cell. He is startled when he sees the reflection of Abruzzi appear in his mirror. Abruzzi tells T-Bag he’s had time to think, “Not that you tried to kill me, but about how Jesus saved me.” He tells T-Bag that he hasn’t come to cause any more pain, that he’s ready to forgive T-Bag for what he did. T-Bag is nervous. He doesn’t trust Abruzzi. John offers his hand to shake as a peace offering. T-Bag wants to see John’s other hand. John’s response is, “After all you’ve done, the least I ask is that you don’t insult me.” John steps further into the cell. T-Bag cautiously approaches. Both men tentatively reach to shake hands. After a tense beat, they finally do. The two men call a truce and John walks away. T-Bag breathes a sigh of relief.

Pope storms down the stairs of the administration building with Bellick hot on his heels. Pope is furious that Lincoln is still on the run. Bellick promises Pope that the sheriff’s department has the area blocked off and that it’s only a matter of time until they find Lincoln. Warden Pope tells Bellick he has two more hours and then he must go to the media. He reminds Bellick that they have a killer on the loose and that there are some things that are more important than a career.

Bellick throws his jacket on and gets ready to head out to assist in the search for Lincoln. C.O. Stolte pulls him aside and tells him Tweener “really needs to talk.” Tweener begs Bellick to get him out of the cell with Avocado, but Bellick ignores him and walks off.

Back in his cell, Tweener sits on the lower bunk, fearfully looking up to where Avocado is. Avocado slides his massive body off the top bunk and starts to cuddle up next to Tweener. He tells Tweener to, “start relaxing. Hurt a lot less.” Tweener quietly asks if they can go up to Avocado’s bunk. Avocado likes the sound of that and stands to smooth the sheets. Tweener, now out of Avocado’s eyesight, pulls a razor blade from the metal frame above him. Tweener clenches his jaw, then slashes Avocado with the razor. Avocado cries out in pain.

In the prison parking lot, Sara digs through her purse looking for her car keys. When she gets to her car, Nika comes up from behind her and asks her if she’s the prison doctor. When Sara says yes, Nika asks if she knows Michael Scofield. Sara realizes Nika is Michael’s “wife.” Nike tells Sara that she wants to talk to her. She believes Michael is in some trouble and that he’s going to do something dangerous to get out of it.

At a nearby diner, Sara asks what Nika thinks Michael is going to do. Nika tells Sara that Michael has a deep need to help people, and he saved her from being sold by the men who smuggled her into the United States. Michael gave her an opportunity for a new life. Sara says that she wants to do whatever she can to help Michael, but to do that she needs to know more about what kind of trouble Michael is in. Nika gets flustered and thinks talking to Sara was a mistake. Nika stands and knocks her purse on the floor. Sara bends down to help pick up the purse. As Sara stands up again, she begs Nika for a way to contact her. Nika doesn’t think that’s a good idea. As Nika hurriedly leaves the diner, she asks Sara not tell Michael they spoke.

Lincoln, finally able to sit upright, doesn’t understand how his own death would stop his father. “Because I’m the one who leaked the information about EcoField. They could’ve covered up the scandal a thousand different ways, but they chose to fake Terrance Steadman’s death. And they chose you because they knew it would flush me out. They knew that any man with a son on death row who was innocent would have come forward.” But Lincoln coldly reminds his father that he didn’t come forward. Lincoln’s father tells him that millions of lives could have been saved, by sacrificing Lincoln. But he couldn’t watch his son die. Lincoln turns to his father, furious, telling him that LJ’s mother is dead, Michael is in Fox River and LJ is rotting in some jail, and all of it is his father’s fault. Lincoln’s father accepts the blame, but says there’s still a chance that they can make it right.

Outside the garage, one of the employees at the junkyard notices the black Mustang behind some plastic tarps.

T-Bag slithers across the floor of Gen Pop. Another inmate approaches and quickly hands him a shiv. He tucks the blade behind his back, then begins moving towards Abruzzi’s cell. John sits quietly reading on the bottom bunk. C-Note, swiftly moves in behind T-Bag and grabs T-Bag’s arm just as he was about to charge. C-Note spins T-Bag around and pulls him close and says, “That man in there, is our transportation out of here. Which means, if you go after him, that messes with my chances of me seeing my family. So I ain’t gonna let that happen.” T-Bag stands quietly, knowing C-Note is right. C-Note then tells T-Bag to give him the shank he’s holding. Reluctantly, T-Bag gives up the shank. C-Note calmly walks off as T-Bag slides away.

Back at the infirmary entrance, Sara digs through her purse. She can’t find her keys. An orderly has to let her in.

Nika sits with Michael in visitation. Michael apologizes to Nika for getting her involved. Nika says it’s okay as she takes his hand, subtly passing Sara’s keys to him. Michael thanks her as he stuffs the keys in his sock. Nika says that now they are even. Michael tells her she didn’t owe him anything. She says she owed him everything, but that’s over now. Nika stands to leave, and whispers to Michael, “The lady doctor, she cares for you.”

Bellick paces the hallway of the administration building. C.O. Patterson rushes in with a walkie-talkie, the Sheriff is looking for Bellick. Sheriff Ballard relays to Bellick that the junk yard owner spotted the black Mustang and they’re moving to check it out. Bellick says he’ll be right there.

Kellerman, listening in, puts down the police scanner and speeds away.

Lincoln’s father goes over their escape plan. He tells Lincoln there’s an unimproved road by the river. There’s a chance it hasn’t been blocked off yet. Just as they are about to get in the car, Lincoln sees Kellerman through the plastic hanging over the garage. Lincoln and his father hurry out the back on foot.

They crouch behind cars, trying to keep and eye on Kellerman as they make their way through the forest of discarded junk. Kellerman, gun drawn, is on the hunt. He moves slowly, deliberately as he seeks his target.

Now police cars flood into the compound. Staying low, Lincoln and his father double back, away from the main road. Kellerman also sees the police cars and quickly attaches a silencer to the barrel of his gun.

Bellick, shotgun in hand, now combs the rows or cars with Sheriff Ballard.

Lincoln’s father leads them to a way out of the yard, but Lincoln hesitates. Kellerman turns the corner, gun raised, and calls to Lincoln. Lincoln whispers to his father, “Get out of here.” Kellerman closes in with Linclon square in his gun sights. Kellerman orders Lincoln to turn around.

Lincoln then sees Bellick moving on the other side of the fence. He calls out, “Bellick! Don’t shoot!” Lincoln knows that Bellick’s punishment will be harsh, but at least he’ll be alive. Kellerman is forced to run for cover as the police move in on Lincoln. Lincoln painfully drops to his knees and the police restrain him. Lincoln’s father hurries away from the scene.

Michael huddles over his desk, trying to melt the plastic handle of his toothbrush so he can mold it into a key. Sucre enters the cell and asks if Michael heard about Avocado. Sucre tells him that Avocado was cut up pretty bad, but told people it was the bed frame. Sucre says that Tweener sliced him. Avocado is lying about the bed frame because he doesn’t want Tweener in the SHU. Once Avocado gets out of the infirmary, he’s going to kill Tweener.

Sara and nurse Katie tear the infirmary apart looking for the lost keys. Katie tells her to retrace her steps. Sara tells Katie she noticed them missing, right after lunch. Then she figures it out. Nika must have used her frantic exit as a diversion to get the keys out of Sara’s purse. Sara jumps up and finds a C.O., she tells him she needs to see the visitation log. She grabs the clipboard and scans the names. She finds Michael’s, then moves her finger across to find the name “NIKA VOLEK.” Obviously upset, she puts the clipboard down and leaves.

As Michael walks through the yard, John stops him says he needs to know where Fibonacci is. He explains that his conversion requires that he not only seek forgiveness, but also provide forgiveness for those who betrayed him. Michael remains quiet. John pleads with Michael, but Michael refuses. John says he understands and that he’ll be patient.

Having walked away from Michael, John then makes a phone call. A man on the other end answers. John tells the man, “You’re now officially on standby. You’ll have her there, you understand?” We now see John is talking to Nick Savrinn. Nick, replies with a heavy heart, “I’ll do my best.” In old Abruzzi fashion, he continues, “Good. Goose Park Airstrip. Find it on the map. Soon as I call, you have that bitch there ready and waiting.”

Michael finds Tweener at the bleachers. Michael tells Tweener to go to Ad Seg, but Tweener knows admitting what he did to Avocado would add time to his sentence and that he’s a dead man either way. Michael tells him that there might be another way out of Fox River, but he needs to know if he can trust Tweener. Tweener locks eyes with Michael. Tweener now knows there’s something bigger going on.

In the infirmary, Michael rolls up his sleeve as Sara walks in with his daily insulin injection. Michael tries small talking Sara, but he can tell things have changed. Katie walks in and tells Sara that she found her keys over by her inbox. Sara stares fiercely at Michael. Michael can’t look her in the eye. Katie adds, “There’s a maintenance guy waiting outside -- said you wanted him to change the locks. Should I call him off?” Sara eyes Michael for any response, but then says to send him in. Sara asks Michael if there’s something wrong. Michael tries to cover by asking if she wants to talk about what happened earlier. But Sara coldly says she has a pretty good idea and sends Michael off. The maintenance man throws the old doorknob into his work box as Michael walks by, defeated.

Lincoln, still in pain, shuffles his cuffed legs out of the van and back into Fox River. Warden Pope stands waiting, then barks out, “I want him under twenty-four hour surveillance. He doesn’t sneeze without my knowing it.” When Lincoln pleads that someone tried to kill him. Pope tells him that finding Lincoln 8 miles away from the accident scene makes him believe otherwise. C.O.s march Lincoln back to Ad Seg.

Obviously in a good mood, Bellick sings to himself as he strolls into the yard. Tweener checks to see if anyone is listening, then calls for Bellick at the fence line. Tweener tells Bellick that he has information for him this time, but he wants guaranteed protection from Avocado as well as time taken off his sentence. Bellick laughs it off, figuring that Tweener is bluffing. Tweener continues to plead. Bellick gets serious and tells Tweener it’s his last chance to prove himself. Tweener leans in close to Bellick, “Scofield and his whole P.I. crew…they’re escaping.”

Bellick furiously tears apart the guard room. He grabs a sledge hammer and begins hitting the floor until he hits something that sounds hollow. Bellick drops the sledge hammer, then flips up the couch and tears up the carpet. He takes the sledge hammer and smashes it repeatedly into the hollow spot. Bits of concrete and plywood fly as Bellick furiously whacks away at the floor. Then, Bellick breaks through. His eyes are wide as he stares down at what he’s uncovered…Bellick has found the hole!




Prison Break
Episode 120 "Tonight"
Airdate: 08/29/2005

Bellick kneels on the floor and peers into the escape hole. He can hardly believe what he’s seeing. He’s about to stand up, when WHAM! A shovel slams him square in the face. Westmorland menacingly advances toward a stunned and staggering Bellick. Westmorland lands one more solid blow before Bellick recovers enough to fight back. Bellick blocks the next swing and pushes Westmoreland back against the lockers as he wrestles the shovel away. Bellick takes the offensive, landing a few gut punches on Westmorland. Bellick then shoves Westmoreland onto a countertop. Westmorland lands on a glass coffee pot, which shatters during the struggle. Bellick grabs for the shovel, then rears back for a vicious swing, but Westmoreland grabs a nearby metal thermos and smashes it against Bellick’s head. Bellick is knocked backwards, landing on his back. He slips into unconsciousness. Westmoreland takes a few breaths to collect himself. He looks down at his side and realizes a shard of glass from the coffee pot has been pushed deep into his abdomen. He grabs the shard and slowly pulls it out, trying his best not to cry out in pain. He then stands over Bellick, panic starting to show on Westmorland’s face.

Guards walk the fence line being led by several German Shepherds. The escape crew watches them as T-Bag notes that each time he’s been caught, it was always because of the dogs.

Charles pushes a small dumpster out of the Guard Room and does his best to conceal his wound.

T-Bag continues tell the cons that if you can’t get rid of your smell, the dogs will always find you. Abruzzi agrees and Michael tells them that they have to scrub anything in their cells that will have their smell on it. C-Note asks how much time they have left. Abruzzi tells them it will be three days until they will be allowed back into the Guard Room. Manche says that he will also have the extra suits by then. All that is left is for Michael to find a way to unlock the door in the infirmary and to figure out how to get Lincoln out of Ad Seg. Michael thinks three days will be plenty of time to sort out the last details.

Westmoreland then approaches the group. His face dead white, he tells them, “We’ve gotta get out of here…NOW.”

Westmoreland doesn’t know how, but Bellick found the escape hole. Westmorland tells them he covered the hole as best he could, but it’s only a matter of time before the other C.O.s notice that Bellick is missing. The cons look to each other and Michael asks Charles, “What do you mean, missing?”

A C.O. fills a cup of coffee in the Guard Room. Amazingly, there is no evidence of the earlier fight. However, just under the table of the Guard Room, Bellick still unconscious, lays bound and gagged.

Sucre contends that Fox River is a big place and no one will notice Bellick is missing. But C-Note tells him nothing happens inside those walls without Bellick’s approval. Michael, as focused as we’ve ever seen him, tells the group, “Soon as it gets dark, we go.” The crew is stunned. They aren’t sure they’re ready. Michael lashes out at them, “Then stay.” A tense moment, but the group quickly realizes there’s no other way. Michael asks if Abruzzi can have the plane ready tonight. John says he can. Next, Michael tells C-Note to grab as much peroxide from his kitchen duty as he can. Michael will get the infirmary key. The rest of them are to scrub down their cells to get rid of as much of their scent as they can. Michael tells them they’re leaving after dinner, during “Tier Time.” They’ll all exit through Michael’s cell, one by one. C-Note points out that they were supposed to leave through the Guard’s Room. If they leave through Michael’s cell they won’t have much of a head start. T-Bag nervously blurts out that if they plan to leave at seven that night, and eight o’clock is head count, that only gives them sixty minutes. Michael just nods and says, “Sixty minutes to get over the wall and as far away from here as possible.” Sucre interrupts, “They’ll be right on our asses!” Michael responds coldly, “They already are.”

Michael and Sucre walk the tier back to their cell. Sucre reminds Michael that Lincoln is still under 24-hour surveillance and if Michael can’t get to him tonight, the cons still need to make their break. Michael is well aware of that. Michael then looks across the tier, where he meets Tweener’s eyes looking back at him.

In Ad Seg, Lincoln calls for a C.O. He tells the guard his brother doesn’t know he was in an accident and asks if there’s anyway to get a message to him. The guard grimly replies, “Yeah. Put it in your will.”

Veronica finishes a phone call and hangs up. She tells Nick that she has a friend at the title company that was able to get the address for the phone number they found in Blackfoot, Montana. She continues, saying that the property was paid for through an offshore holding company bankrolled by a trust financed by Terrence Steadman’s estate. Veronica connects the dots, “Looks like you and I are going to Blackfoot, Montana.”

In the dark tunnel under the Guard Room, Bellick snaps back into consciousness. He quickly realizes he’s tied up and struggles to get free.

In the chow hall, C.O. Stolte asks C.O. Patterson if he’s seen Bellick yet. Michael walks behind them, listening in. Stolte continues, telling Patterson that Mack was looking for him, but Bellick hasn’t shown up yet. C-Note walks closely behind Michael, worried that the guards are going to find Bellick before they make their break. Michael asks when he can get the peroxide. C-Note says he probably won’t have it until after yard duty.

T-Bag zig-zags through the mess hall. He stops at the table of an inmate eating alone and asks the inmate for his brussel sprouts. The inmate is more than happy to hand them off, noting that they stink.

Michael finds Tweener sitting at a table alone and quickly whispers, “We’re leaving tonight.” The news catches Tweener off guard, when he asks for more info Michael tells him to find Sucre, he’ll fill Tweener in.

Inside an exquisitely decorated room, Vice President Reynolds stands surrounded by a group of men in expensive business suits who are interrogating her about the President passing the Energy Bill. Clearly they are unhappy with the Presidents change of heart. They expected the Vice President to make sure the President vetoed that bill. One man then asks Reynolds if she has enjoyed their support. He also advises her not to take their power for granted. Another man follows by telling her that eventually they always get what they want, that she may no longer be the right person to help them get their agenda done. A concerned look washes over the Vice President.

Michael stands in the infirmary waiting for Sara. Sara walks into the room without any pleasantries, locking the door behind her. Michael then tries to talk his way out of the trouble he’s made for himself. Sara cuts him off and tells him she has had enough of his stories and lies. She then asks if Michael is man enough to admit what he’s done. Michael admits to stealing the keys. Sara pounces on his every word. She just wants to know what he’s after. Michael apologizes, “Please understand, I never meant to involve you in this.” Then Michael lays it all on the line, “I came here to tell you something. I’m getting my brother out of here. Tonight. And I need your help.” Sara leans against the desk, her eyes locked on Michael. She knows he is telling the truth.

Sara begs Michael not to say anymore. She tells him escaping is not the way to save his brother. “You understand that I’m required to report everything you’re telling me,” she warns. When Sara asks why he would tell her, Michael says she is the only person who can help him. Sara grows agitated when she thinks Michael is trying to manipulate her with guilt. Michael contends that he is not asking her to hurt anyone or steal anything, he is simply asking her to make a mistake. All she has to do is leave the door open when she leaves tonight. Then it hits Sara, she has been part of Michael’s plan all along. Michael admits that at first his feelings for her were an act, but later he truly wanted to be there with her. Michael begs, “Whatever you might think of me, this is about Lincoln. Don’t make him pay for my mistakes.” Sara storms out.

Abruzzi stands at the phones talking to Maggio, his contact on the outside. He tells Maggio that they need the plane to be ready tonight. Maggio complains a little, but John sets him straight. John also asks if Maggio has arranged a van. Maggio says, “Waiting up Fitz street. Two hundred yards behind the body shop.” Then Maggio asks John if he wants a bigger plane because the one they have will only seat three and John mentioned that it will be seven or eight cons. John tells Maggio that not everyone is going to have a ticket. The three who are still breathing will get on the plane.

Veronica hurriedly arranges travel over the phone to Blackfoot. Nick’s cell phone rings and he answers it in the other room. Abruzzi is on the other end and tells him that Nick must take Veronica to the airstrip tonight. Nick is reluctant and tells John that it could get messy. John flippantly says, “Then wear a smock,” and hangs up. Nick’s head drops, knowing what he has to do.

Bellick continues to struggle in the pipes below the Guard’s Room. When Bellick hears two C.O.s enter above, he does his best to make noise. But the C.O.s can’t hear him over their own conversation.

As the P.I. crew tends to an area of the yard, Michael watches the entrance to the Guard’s Room. Sucre asks if Michael has handled their access to the infirmary. When Michael says, “I’m working on it,” Sucre walks away, looking unhappy. Michael watches the two guards exit the break room. The escape crew’s secret appears to be safe for now.

Tweener, raking the yard, moves closer to C.O. Patterson and asks if he’s seen Bellick. Westmoreland stands nearby, listening in. Patterson tells him that he hasn’t shown up yet. Charles barks for Tweener to come help him.

Behind them, John pockets handfuls of manure fertilizer to cover his scent later.

C-Note walks up to Michael and tells him things are about to get ugly between T-Bag and Abruzzi. He shows Michael the blade he took from T-Bag and tells Michael that if he had been ten seconds later, Abruzzi would have been dead. C-Note tells Michael if he wants to be the boss then he needs to set T-Bag and Abruzzi straight. There can’t be any complications. C-Note shakes Michael’s hand and passes him the shank.

Sara stares out the infirmary window as Katie walks in talking about some paperwork from the county. When Sara snaps to, she asks Katie to handle the paperwork because she needs to leave. Sara grabs her coat and purse, offering no further explanation to Katie.

In the locker room, Westmoreland redresses his bleeding wound with another clean sock. He shuts his locker door and stands near the other P.I. guys. Michael walks in and orders the guys to, “Put your blues on over your P.I. gear.” Michael tells them that if they don’t get the suits they need, then they’re going to have to make them. C-Note grits his teeth and alerts Michael to the fact that Tweener is sitting nearby, hearing every word. Michael says it’s okay, he’s going to be part of the escape. The cons are stunned. Michael tells them that when the plan changed, so did the timing and now everyone can be included in the break. But C-Note speaks up, “One more person means one more thing that can go wrong.” Michael defends Tweener, telling C-Note that he owes Tweener. Michael tells Tweener everything will be fine. John stares at Michael, unsure of how good of a leader he really is.

The men walk single file back to A-Wing. One of the C.O. storms out of the locker room and tells them to stop. He tells them he saw drops of blood on the locker room floor and needs an explanation. When no one speaks up, Michael thinks fast and puts his hand into his pocket with the shank. He clenches his jaw and slices his thumb open. Then he turns to the C.O., “That’d be me boss. Happened while I was loading equipment into the shed.” The C.O. tells Michael to make sure he gets that patched up, then sends them all on their way. Michael then turns his attention to Westmoreland. Michael asks him if he’s okay. Westmoreland assures Michael that he’s okay enough to make it out.

Sara sits in her parked car with her eyes closed, muttering to herself. She then digs out her cell phone, “Hey, Shelly, it’s me. I know I’m supposed to call you as my sponsor in case I have…um…” Sara never finishes her thought as she stares at the bar across the street. She hangs up and gets out of her car, making her way toward the bar.

Michael kneels next to the Taj Mahal model with his hand high inside the dome. Suddenly, he snaps off a thick “L” shaped piece and puts it in his pocket. Pope walks in, excited that his Taj is nearly complete, just in time for his anniversary. Pope tells Michael that he feels fortunate to have met him because “not many decent men make their way into Fox River.” Michael solemnly replies that there are a few decent men down in A-Wing. Pope walks behind Michael and says, “If there’s anything you need, well, I owe you one.” Michael slowly turns, “Actually…there is one thing you can do for me.”

Michael, now inside Lincoln’s Ad Seg cell, looks around the cell for any way that he can get his brother out. Lincoln sits on the floor, chained to the wall. He gives Michael the back-story about their father’s involvement with the Company, but Michael isn’t paying attention. Michael kneels down next to Lincoln and tells him they must escape tonight because Bellick found the hole. Michael continues to analyze the situation, but Lincoln snaps at him, telling Michael to go without him. Lincoln says there’s no way Michael will have enough time to get him out. Michael finally sits still, knowing that he may have no choice but to leave his brother behind.

C-Note carefully pulls his pant leg down to conceal several plastic bags of peroxide that are taped to this leg. He kneels next to a counter and continues filling up additional bags. Trumpets walks in on C-Note, catching him off guard. Trumpets closes in on C-Note and reminds him that he’s no longer in business. But C-Note says this is personal. Trumpets spots the bag of peroxide that C-Note is holding close to his leg, “What you got over there anyway, some kind of cleaner? What’chu trying to clean up, Sergeant Franklin?” That pushes C-Note over the edge. He splashes the peroxide in Trumpets’ face. Trumpets staggers and grabs for his burning eyes. C-Note pounces, delivering several furious punches before Trumpets collapses to the floor. C-Note is relentless as he stomps on Trumpets again and again. Finally, C-Note backs off. He spits on Trumpets as he turns and walks away.

Sara sits alone at a bar, her eyes fixated on the untouched glass of scotch in front of her. In the background, a reporter chatters on about the Vice President’s possible running mates for her Presidential campaign. On a TV above the bar, the Reporter drones, “Rumors coming out of Vice President Reynolds’ camp detail a preliminary ‘short list’ of running mates should she, as expected, win her party’s nomination. Perhaps the biggest surprise is the inclusion of Illinois Governor, Frank Tancredi.” The mention of her father’s name gets Sara’s attention. Sara’s listens intently as the reporter finishes, “His consideration is being attributed to his reputation for being tough on crime. And some point to his recent refusal to grant clemency to Lincoln Burrows, the murderer of the Vice President’s brother, which was certainly welcomed with deep appreciation from within the Oval Office.” Sara starts to put the puzzle pieces together. She doesn’t like what it adds up to. She jumps from her chair, leaving the drink behind.

C.O. Stolte looks over the monitors in the guard shack outside of A-Wing. He then looks up at the sign in board with all the names of each C.O. written out. Every C.O.’s name has an “X” next to it except the first name on the list, B. BELLICK.

In his cell, T-Bag crushes the brussel sprouts he acquired earlier and spreads the goo throughout his bed to cover up his scent.

Similarly, Abruzzi pulls his bed apart and spreads fertilizer all over everything he has touched. His cellmate sits at the desk watching John and thinking he’s crazy.

Westmoreland leans against his cell wall doing what he can to forget the pain of his injury while he grinds a bar of soap against the wall to get rid his scent. He stops as a C.O. walks by. Once it’s clear, he continues with the soap.

Tweener stands at his cell door, doing nothing to prep for the escape. C.O. Stolte barks out, “Open on 88!” and then enters Tweener’s cell. He tosses a small package onto Avocado’s bunk. Tweener asks what’s in the package. Stolte tells him, “Avocado’s gear. He’s getting out of the infirmary tonight.” The urgency of escaping from Fox River has just sunk in with Tweener. Stolte asks Tweener about what he told Patterson earlier, “I heard you were asking Patterson about Bellick? He said you thought you saw him this morning?” Tweener looks across the floor and locks eyes with Michael. Tweener knows he can’t betray Michael now and tells Stolte that he saw Bellick yesterday morning, “You know, time just sorta blends together up in here.” Stolte leaves Tweener to worry about Avocado’s return.

Sucre holds up the peroxide bag, confused about what he’s supposed to do with it. Michael tells him to pour the peroxide into the toilet. They’re going to use the peroxide to bleach their blue P.I. jumpsuits white so they can move through the Psych Ward without drawing attention. Michael folds his suit and Sucre’s, then hands them to Sucre who shoves them in the toilet. Sucre says it looks like they will have everything they need to make their escape, except for Lincoln. Michael turns and walks to the cell door, holding the piece he broke from the Taj Mahal, “You worry about those suits, let me worry about Linc.”

The President of the United States shakes the hands of several foreign dignitaries as Vice President Reynolds moves in. The President asks his aide to give them a few minutes. The President and Reynolds walk down a road followed closely by a team of Secret Service agents. The Vice President wants to know why the President changed his mind about the energy bill. The President admits that while the bill is flawed, it is better than doing nothing at all. But what’s more interesting to him is that Reynolds is there asking him to veto a bill that she voted in favor of. When Reynolds tells him she’s only thinking of her future, the President tells her that he’s now considering backing someone else. This is a serious blow to Vice President Reynolds. The President tells her that she is everything that is wrong with politics. Reynolds tells the President not to take the moral high ground because the only reason he chose her as a running mate was because she was a woman. Reynolds quickly realizes she may have said too much. She tries to back track, but the President simply walks away.

C.O. Patterson stands next to the Taj Mahal model and jokes to Warden Pope, “You know what I got my wife for our anniversary? A scarf.” Pope reminds Patterson that this anniversary is a big one for him and he needed to do something special. Pope, Patterson and another C.O. get ready to move the massive model downstairs. When they lift it, the dome suddenly collapses inward. Pope panics. The men gently put the model back on the table. Pope sends the C.O.s to get Michael immediately.

Michael hurries Sucre to get the bleached jumpsuits out of the toilet. They need to be dry in forty-five minutes, right at tier-time. Sucre wonders if everyone else will be ready. Michael says they don’t have a choice because they’re going to need every second. C.O. Mack barks out, “Open on forty!” Sucre crams the suits back into the toilet, then pulls his pants down and sits over them. Mack tells Michael that Pope needs to see him immediately. Sucre whispers out, “It’s 6:15 bro! You can’t!” But Mack pulls Michael out.

The C.O.s escort Michael through the floor of A-Wing. C-Note, Abruzzi, T-Bag and Westmoreland watch him pass from their respective cells. Their apprehension evident.

Bellick, exhausted, continues to futilely struggle with his restraints. When he finally relaxes, he feels something with his hands. A jagged bolt protrudes from the concrete walls of the tunnel. With new hope, Bellick begins to furiously rub the rope across the jagged bolt.

Sara walks into a quiet restaurant. Sitting near the window is large table of well dressed men and women. At the head of the table is Governor Tancredi. The Governor sees his daughter and excuses himself to speak with her. Sara, with current suspicions lingering in her mind, asks her father if he looked at the information from Lincoln’s lawyers. The Governor dismissively tells her to move on. Dodging the question, he tells her that Lincoln’s attorneys had a chance to present new evidence, but that time has passed. Sara asks one more time if he actually looked at the information. The Governor finally says he didn’t need to look at the information because he agreed with the findings of the court. Sara lashes back and asks, “Just tell me one thing - did they promise you the Vice Presidency before or after you signed his death warrant?” But her father punches back, “I will not discuss morality with an addict and a thief. You wanna talk reality, Sara? How many times did I use my influence to keep you or one of your junky boyfriends out of jail? How many was it? Three? Four times? I swear Sara, it’s funny you know? You have no trouble whatsoever with me bending the law, especially when it’s bent in your direction. Grow up.” The Governor walks back to his table and Sara leaves with fresh wounds from her father’s words.

Stolte and Patterson continue to debate Bellick’s whereabouts. Abruzzi listens in from his cell. Stolte finally takes charge and tells Patterson, “I’m just sayin’...it’s 6:30 and no one’s heard from the guy. We gotta tell Pope.” Patterson, reluctant, say’s he’ll tell the Warden.

Veronica hurries around her apartment getting ready for their flight to Blackfoot. Nick sits on the couch doing the best he can to slow her down. Nick tells her that he thinks going to Montana might not be a good move. Veronica tells Nick she’s getting on that plane with or without him. As Veronica moves to grab one of her bags, Nick gets behind her and pulls a revolver from waistband. Veronica turns and sees Nick aiming the gun at her. Nick tells her that he can’t let her go to Blackfoot. Veronica goes on the offensive and begins asking Nick questions, “ All this time and you’re one of them. Who’s pulling your leash, Nick? Is it Steadman? Kellerman? Who?” When she demands that Nick look her in the eye, he can’t. He hates that it had to come to this. She tells him he’s a coward.

Michael sits outside Pope’s office, fidgeting with the broken piece of the Taj Mahal model. Pope and Patterson exit the Warden’s office with some urgency in their step. Patterson continues on. Pope has his assistant, Becky, dial the number for Bellick’s mother. Pope takes the phone and speaks with Bellick’s mother who confirms that she hasn’t talked to Bellick since he called her early that morning. Pope hangs up and asks Becky to have C.O. Mack check the parking lot for Bellick’s truck. Michael watches closely through the glass, knowing exactly what’s happening. Pope signals to Michael to come in.

Sucre stands in his cell, holding a picture of himself and Maricruz. His mind lingers on things she has said, “I’m pregnant Fernando, I’m going to have your son…I’m really scared to do this alone.”

Abruzzi removes the silver crucifix from his neck and hides it under his pillow. There’s no looking back now. Soon he will have his revenge on Fibonnaci.

Sitting on his bunk, T-Bag unfolds a napkin. Written on it is Susan Hollander’s name and address.

C-Note paces the small space between the bunks and wall, knowing that he’ll get to see his family soon. He looks up and sees Trumpets keeping a close eye on him. C-Note knows when the cell doors open, Trumpets and his boys are coming for him.

Tweener rests his head on the cell door and then looks back at Avocado’s belongings on the top bunk. Knowing that he has no choice, Tweener grabs his P.I. jumpsuit from under his bunk, throws it in the toilet and covers it in the peroxide.

Charles opens his gold pocket watch and looks at the old black and white photo of his daughter. Time is running out. He must see her before she dies. He lifts up his shirt and exposes the wound. It’s still bleeding. Charles fights the urge to scream in pain as he applies another clean piece of cloth.

Still chained to the wall, Lincoln stoically sits contemplating the memories of his near-execution. As the terrifying images flash through his mind, he wonders whether or not Michael listened to him and is leaving without him.

Nurse Katie gets ready to leave for the night. She closes the infirmary door, being sure to lock it behind her

Sara walks along Chicago’s lakefront alone, her world falling apart. We’re left to wonder what she will do with the information she’s put together.

“I’ve read that the actual Taj appears pink in the morning, milky white in the evening, and golden when the moon shines. The changes, they say, depict the different emotions of a woman,” Pope rambles on to Michael as they stand around the model. Michael stands quietly with something clearly on his mind. Pope tells Michael about the dome collapse. As he finishes, Michael places the “L” shaped piece on the table. Michael’s tone turns sinister as he tells Pope he broke the piece because he needed to make sure he’d be allowed back into Pope’s office. Michael slowly removes his hand from his pocket, revealing the shank C-Note passed to him earlier. Pope struggles to comprehend what’s going on.

Michael holds the shank close to Pope and with intense determination tells him, “I’m breaking out. And you’re going to make sure my brother goes with me.”




Prison Break
Episode 121"Go"
Airdate: 05/08/2005

Pope, the jagged blade aimed steadily at his throat, barks that Michael just added ten years to his sentence. Michael’s determination is undaunted. A walkie-talkie crackles on a nearby table as C.O. Mack radios in from the parking lot to inform Pope that Bellick’s truck is parked at the prison.

Michael grabs Pope to tell Mack that Bellick is taking some personal time. Pope tries to stall Michael, prompting Michael to move closer, threatening, “Do you really want to find out how badly I want to get my brother out of here?” Pope radios back to Mack that Bellick is fine. Michael asks for one more thing.

“Have Lincoln transferred to the infirmary. He needs to be there overnight,” Michael says as he restrains Pope to his office chair. Pope radios the request and Michael puts a gag in Pope’s mouth. Michael apologizes as he wheels Pope into a closet. He tells Pope they can find Bellick under the guards’ room, and then knocks him unconscious with the walkie-talkie. Michael closes the doors, turns to the desk and dials out on the phone. He places the receiver on the desk and exits.

Smiling on his way out, Michael innocently tells Becky that Pope is on the phone with the Department of Corrections. He doesn’t want to be disturbed. Becky nods her understanding and tells Michael, “I hope he’s told you how highly he thinks of you. There’s no way he would have finished the Taj Mahal in time for their anniversary without your help.” Michael turns to leave.

Bellick, still hidden underground, continues to furiously rake his restraints against the jagged bolt.

Michael walks back into his cell. Sucre waits nervously on his bunk. Michael checks his watch, five minutes until tier-time and then an hour to get as far away from Fox River as they can.

Westmoreland puts the case for his glasses in his mouth as he cleans his bleeding wound. He puts a clean sock on the wound, the pain making every movement excruciating.

Counting down the minutes until the cell doors open, T-Bag glares across the tier and locks eyes with Abruzzi.

Tweener uses the peroxide on this P.I. jumpsuit to bleach it white. He panics when he sees that there are still blue spots on it. His late start may cost him the chance to get out tonight.

C-Note hops off his bunk and sees Trumpets watching him closely. Trumpets slides his thumb across his neck, showing his intentions for C-Note.

Michael asks Sucre, “You unscrewed the toilet, right?” But Sucre sits dazed and apologizes. “That’s five minutes we don’t have,” Michael snaps. Michael grabs the bolt and moves to dismantle the toilet, but Sucre dives to the bowl and vomits. A silence passes between them as each considers the consequences if the plan fails. The buzzer interrupts their thoughts as the cell doors in A-Wing slide open. Michael hands Sucre the bolt. “There’s no going back now.”

The inmates shuffle out of their cells. Michael and Sucre stay close to their cell door. Abruzzi is the first to arrive, and hands Sucre his white jumpsuit. Sucre stashes it under the bed. The rest of the team arrives, each con working to appear casual while also aware of the time constraints. C-Note hovers over the railing knowing that Trumpets is after him. Tweener arrives and passes his suit to Sucre. Angry about the conspicuous blue spots remaining on the garment, Sucre throws Tweener’s suit under the mattress. Michael asks them to block the door so he can finish unhooking the toilet.

Trumpets’ crew gathers around him. Someone slips a sharpened nail into Trumpet’s hands. “I want him dead. Anybody gets in the way, gets run over.” Trumpets marches to the stairs.

Bellick finally cuts through the restraints that tie his hands and feet together. He hears voices from above. C.O. Mack and C.O. Patterson fill their coffee cups in the break room above him. Bellick tries to cry out but he’s muffled by the tape across his mouth and the carpeted floor above him.

C-Note hovers next to Michael, knowing that Trumpets is on his way. C-Note whispers “How many more screws?”

Trumpets pushes his way up to the second tier and the cons see him coming. As Trumpets moves to enter Michael’s cell, Abruzzi cuts him off, casually telling him he hasn’t seen C-Note. Trumpets tells the cons that they need to clear out and his thugs move in. Abruzzi steps aside and lets him enter the cell.

Michael sits on the bottom bunk and looks up at Trumpets. “Something you need?” he asks. Trumpets looks under the bed, but C-Note is nowhere in sight.

Behind the wall, C-Note sits quietly.

Nick sits across from Veronica, his gun on the coffee table between them. S the realization sinks in that Nick has been lying to her all this time, Nick justifies his actions. He explains that he was working to prove Lincoln was innocent and that Abruzzi’s men approached him after he took up the case. In exchange for watching her, Abruzzi’s people had someone already doing life in prison confess to the murder that his father was accused of. Nick tells her that no one is going to get hurt in this as long as Michael gives up Fibonnaci’s location. Veronica is stunned at Nick’s naiveté, give all they’ve gone though. Nick’s cell phone rings. He grabs the gun and forces Veronica to her feet.

As Westmoreland climbs through the wall, Michael hands him a white. Sucre drops a sheet across the cell door to provide cover as the rest of the team follows.

No longer hog-tied, Bellick struggles to his feet, doing his best to get attention.

Michael reaches past T-Bag and hands the next suit to Abruzzi. “Age before beauty,” T-Bag hisses as Abruzzi disappears. Sucre is last and asks Michael if he has the key to the infirmary. Michael replies, “Not exactly.” He empties some foot powder into his pockets.

Sara stands along Lake Michigan, the weight of Michael’s request on her mind.

Behind the wall, Michael pulls the toilet back into position, covering their tracks.

The other cons have moved a shelf in the boiler room to reveal the hole Michael started during the riots. Michael moves tells them they’re ten minutes behind. He jumps into the wall and the other inmates follow.

Bellick rubs the duct tape on his mouth against the edge of the hole, hoping to get it loose.

Michael moves through the now-familiar tunnels. Suddenly the pipes fill with Bellick’s cries for help. Michael halts and listens for a moment as Bellick yells again.

Patterson and Mack walk past the Guard’s Room. Mack stops and looks back, “Did you hear that?” They go back to the Guard Room to investigate.

T-Bag rushes up behind Bellick and clamps his hand over Bellick’s mouth as Mack and Patterson enter the room above them. T-Bag holds a blade close to Bellick’s face and they wait.

Mack and Patterson look around the Guard Room. They don’t see anyone. Mack swears he heard something, but the guards return to their rounds.

Michael tells T-Bag he needs Bellick’s hat and jacket. T-Bag drags Bellick through the pipes.

Sara sits in her car, collecting her thoughts. When she steps out, she’s at Fox River.

Where the underground pipes meet, Bellick is on his knees while the cons wait for Michael to get his uniform. The venom in Bellick’s voice is palpable as he observes, “Brains of the outfit, huh Scofield? He’s leading you off a cliff boys,” Bellick’s eyes grow wide when he sees Tweener emerge from the pipe. Bellick locks eyes with him. He’s about to tell the cons that Tweener betrayed them, but Tweener punches him and forces the duct tape back into Bellick’s mouth.

Veronica begs for her life in Nick’s car. Nick repeats his mantra that she’ll be fine as long as Michael tells them what they need to hear. Nick forces himself to move on and pulls a pillowcase over her head.

Michael orders the men to put on their bleached coveralls and that he’ll be back in a moment. C-Note wants to know where he’s going and shouts down the pipes, but Michael is already gone. Frustrated, the cons put on their jumpsuits.

Michael walks through the prison bowels until he finds a small utility box. He takes a handful of the foot powder from his pocket and blows it on the keys. When he leans in, he sees the powder has stuck to keys 1, 3, 5, and 8. Michael presses the numbers at random and between each sequence watches to see if the red light above the box will turn green. Each combination he tries doesn’t seem to work.

Charles moves his hand over his jacket; he’s bleeding through his clothes. C-Note notices but says nothing.

Far from Fox River, two men sit at a conference table. The first man suggests that they deal with the Vice President in simple terms and fire her. He continues on to say, “She’s plummeting in the polls. If we keep her as our candidate, we are handing the Presidency to her opponent. And then everything we hoped to gain with Caroline in office, it’s all gone.” The second man asks how can they be sure that Reynolds will stay quiet about what she knows.

Samantha Brinker steps in, offering her opinion of the Vice President. The only thing she desires is to become President. Without that, she has nothing to lose, and if they try and take her down, she might come clean on everything and everyone.

Sara walks down the infirmary hallway and the elevator opens. Lincoln is marched past Sara into the examining rooms. Sara’s face registers what this means; it’s happening tonight. She unlocks her office door and walks in. When she looks up, she looks at the vials of morphine across the room.

As the cons wait helplessly for Michael to return, Manche begins to panic. “Are we supposed to just stand here?” Sucre tells him that he doesn’t know. They have no choice but to wait.

Becky looks at the phone on her desk. Warden Pope’s line is still lit.

The buzzing of an alarm goes off across the yard. The cons look up, worried. At the utility box, Michael, too, is startled by the siren.

“We’re screwed!” T-Bag cries as Michael returns to the group. He tells them to move forward. The team is panicked, assuming the alarm if for them, but Michael explains, “It’s the fire alarm to the Psych Ward. I set it off.” Michael pushes past the escapees and up the ladder to the grate outside Psych Ward.

Due to the alarm, the inmates from Psych Ward filter out into the dark yard. Michael peeks up as a herd of white jumpsuits draws near.

A jet plane lands and taxis onto a remote airstrip. The pilot steps out with Maggio, saying, “We’re in the sticks. You know how many people must have heard a jet like this land?” Maggio isn’t concerned and holds a police scanner close to him.

A Psych Ward orderly walks out and tells the inmates that it was a false alarm and guides them in back inside. When the inmates far enough away from the grate, Michael and the cons climb out and follow. What they don’t know is that someone else is watching them from a distance.

Michael leads the men into Psych Ward, “Hold up!” he barks to Sklar, the orderly who mans the front desk, “Got some stragglers.” The cons slide through the doors. Sklar singles out Tweener, whose uniform still betrays the blue of the PI unit. “Wait a second. That ain’t whack shack-issued.” Michael plays the roll of C.O., ordering everyone to stay put. Sklar pulls Michael aside and whispers, “That’s John Abruzzi right there.” Michael agrees, feigns cooperation and asks Sklar if he has any sedative he can use to put John down. Sklar hands Michael a syringe who turns to Abruzzi, but instead sinks the needle into Sklar’s neck; he collapses on the floor. The cons take off down the hall.

Veronica begs Nick to stop. He pulls the car over and yanks the pillowcase off her head. He tells her that she needs to get to the airport and go to Blackfoot. He puts her in a cab, and as the cab pulls away, Nick flips open his phone, “Dad, you still got the key to my apartment? Meet me there.”

In the Psych Ward basement, the cons open the access hatch and drop into the tunnels that will lead them to the infirmary. Michael stops Tweener as the other cons climb down. Michael, calmly but intensely, tells Tweener, “I know what you did.” He makes it clear that once they’re on the outside Tweener will go his own way.

Sara hurries to leave the infirmary. Nurse Katie catches her on the way out and tells her about the fire alarm from Psych Ward. When she tries to continue the conversation, Sara just lowers her head and hurries out.

The men rush down the concrete tunnel, but Westmoreland drags behind. C-Note notices and doubles back. “Look, maybe it’s not worth it if it’s going to kill you,” he tells him. Westmoreland insists that he’s fine.

Again, someone stands nearby them, invisible, but closely following.

Sara walks through the secure lobby of the infirmary with Katie behind her. A C.O. locks the metal bars behind them, then disappears around the corner. Michael sticks his head out then darts down the hall. Once clear, he motions to the men and they file down the hall.

Vice President Reynolds throws her drink glass into the fireplace. Agent Kellerman thinks she’s overacting to the news that she was uninvited to a literacy fundraiser. The Vice President believes the Company is giving up on her and thinks she’s no long their candidate. Kellerman disagrees, thinking instead that the Company is doing this to test her and she needs to be strong.

Lincoln sits on an examining table while a C.O. rambles about how he plans to modify his truck. The C.O. sees Lincoln’s eyes move and turns to see Michael and the cons circling around. The C.O. puts his hands up, “I ain’t a hero for fourteen dollars an hour. You do what you will.” Michael makes him uncuff Lincoln, and T-Bag knocks him out with one punch. He hovers over the C.O. and notices the handcuffs locked to the table.

Charging in the front door of his apartment, Nick calls for his father. Nick’s father enters the living room followed by the man in the trench coat who spoke with Nick at the cell phone store. The man stands confidently, gun in hand.

Becky looks over at Pope’s line again. Too concerned not to, she reaches for the phone, but has second thoughts. She hesitates, presses the intercom button and hears the call. A voice on the line announces, “Welcome to Laugh Line! Just $2.99 a minute!”

The man in the trench coat asks Nick where Veronica is. Gone, Nick tells him. Now frustrated, the man raises his gun to the head of Nick’s father. Nick tells him he can find Veronica. “And will you have her here in front of me in the next two minutes?” the man asks. Nick pauses, then tries to explain why he can’t. The man fires a single shot and his father collapses. The man again asks Nick for Veronica’s location. Nick doesn’t answer. The man fires his a bullet into Nick’s shoulder. He moves closer and asks one more time. Nick laughs, “She’s about a million miles away from here. You’re never going to find her.” The man fires his gun directly at Nick.

The cons move through the halls to the infirmary door. Michael’s shoulders tense as he reaches out and grabs the doorknob. Michael turns to the gang, then turns the knob. Michael smiles, “We’re in.”

Sara sits in her car devastated about what she’s just done.

The cons move into action, “First we gotta get that window out, then we have to get the bars off.” Michael moves back out the door and down the hall.

Westmoreland turns away and hunches over, blood soaking through his jumpsuit.

Michael grabs a fire hose from the wall and unrolls it. He hands one end to C-Note and Abruzzi hurries to unravel the rest.

Becky knocks on the Warden’s office door and walks in. She looks around the office but doesn’t see him.

Sucre ties the fire hose to the bars on the window while Abruzzi ties his end off inside the elevator. Michael presses the down button, and the door slides shut, but, due to the hose, it bounces back open. Michael presses the button again; again the same result. T-Bag reminds Michael that they have fifteen minutes to get over the wall. Tweener pushes through the group, into the elevator, and presses the down button. The cons hurry for cover and watch the bars pull free from the window – the weight of the elevator blows them off easily.

Becky and C.O. Stolte walk into Pope’s office. She tells Stolte that she is certain she didn’t see Pope walk out.

The cons remove their white jumpsuits and hand them to Michael. Michael looks up and sees an unwelcome guest. Haywire creeps in with a C.O. radio in his hands. Michael tries to keep Haywire calm and Haywire demands to be part of the escape or he’s calling for the guards. Lincoln doesn’t hesitate: Haywire is in. They need to move.

Lincoln climbs out the window and grabs the thick cable leading from the infirmary to the far wall. Abruzzi piles the jumpsuits on Lincoln’s upside-down body. Lincoln climbs for the wall.

Stolte asks another C.O. guarding the hallway if he saw Pope leave. The C.O. says no and that he’d know - he hasn’t left his post since he punched in.

Lincoln moves across the cable and almost slips, but he regains his grip and makes it to the barbed wire lined wall. Lincoln throws the jumpsuits on the barbed wire, creating a gap. He signals Abruzzi who climbs out and begins to cross. Once on the other side, Abruzzi shimmies down a pipe and to the street below.

Westmoreland gasps and collapses to the floor. Michael and C-Note rush to his aid. C-Note pulls up his sweatshirt to reveal the wound. Michael tells him he only has a short way to go before he’s out. Westmoreland’s face is white as he clings to life. As the inmates continue their escape, Westmoreland makes Michael promise to take care of his daughter once he’s over the wall. Michael promises. Westmoreland reveals his secret, “The money’s buried under a silo at the Double K Ranch, just outside of Tooele, Utah. There’s plenty to split.” C-Note and Michael listen closely, “The government didn’t want any more embarrassment when I took off with that money, so they low-balled it in the papers. Truth is, Michael, it’s not one million under that silo, there’s five million dollars there.” C-Note and Michael look around; T-Bag heard.

Becky walks into the Warden’s office again, followed by C.O.s Stolte, Patterson and Mack. They’ve checked the prison; Pope isn’t anywhere to be found. Patterson suggests trying Pope’s cell.

Michael clenches Westmoreland’s hand, “Give Anna her Poppa’s love.” Michael smiles and says he will. T-Bag, meanwhile, grabs the cable, and starts his climb. Michael helps Charles be more comfortable as C-Note’s turn comes up and he goes out the window.

Becky, phone to her ear, stands silent. Suddenly, they hear the quiet chirping of a cell phone from inside the office. They turn and follow the sound: the closet. Becky opens the doors and gasps as the C.O.s call for back up. Becky removes the gag and Pope mumbles out, “Sound the alarm!”

Manche tells Michael they need to go. Westmoreland gives his last piece of advice to Michael - don’t look back. Once Michael stands, Charles’ eyes glass over. He’s gone.

Manche, seeing the fragile cable, sends Michael ahead. Once Michael grabs it, alarms and spotlights fire up across the prison. Lincoln calls for his brother to hurry. Manche watches nervously from the window, but can’t wait any longer. He grabs the cable and climbs out.

With only inches to freedom for Michael, the cable tears free from the wall under Manche’s weight. Michael crashes against the wall, Manche lands in the yard. Lincoln reaches down to grab his brother’s hand but can’t reach it.

Manche stands and hobbles towards the wall. Several guards charge towards him with shotguns poised. After securing Manche, one of the C.O.s notices the cable. He looks up to the see the white jumpsuits across the razor wire. Michael is gone.

He made it over.




Prison Break
Episode 122 "Flight"
Airdate: 05/15/2006

The prison alarm screams and the flood lights fill the yard.

The guards have Manche face down and he’s begging for his life. C.O. JJ yells into his walkie-talkie, “We got a 1098! Inmates over the wall!” JJ wraps his arm around Manche’s thick neck and demands to know who else was involved. Manche gives up the names, “Scofield, Burrows, Sucre. That Vanilla Ice Kid, Bagwell, C-Note, Abruzzi and that bug-eyed J-Cat.” JJ presses him for more and Manche solemnly says, “Westmoreland.”

Pope storms into the infirmary and asks how many inmates escaped. C.O. JJ tells him eight. Pope walks into Sara’s office to see the window gone and the bars removed. His eyes drift down to Westmoreland sitting lifeless in the same place Michael left him.

A-Wing is filled with the sounds of celebrating inmates who know Michael and the P.I. crew are on the run. Pope pushes through the second tier and into Michael’s cell. The toilet is removed and the hole into the wall is exposed. He walks back out onto the tier and looks over the inmates. C.O.s Patterson and Mack run down the tier, “Warden, they just found Bellick.”

Two guards pull Bellick out of the hole. He immediately asks for his shotgun and a C.O. tries to tell him that Pope is already giving orders. But Bellick cuts him off and yells, “Did I stutter? Get me my shotgun!” Bellick fumes and the C.O. flips Bellick his shotgun.

Bellick walks out of the sally port to a crowd of guards surrounding Warden Pope. He’s barking orders over a bullhorn, “Those men made a choice when they went over that wall. And that choice was to become a threat to society again. Some of them are convicted killers. Our job is to ensure the safety of the general population, which means that if we need to bring those men down in order to maintain that safety, then we’ll do it. We’re playing for keeps now, gentlemen.” Pope tells them if the cons are on foot they’ll be about a mile away and if they secured a vehicle, they could be ten miles away. Squad cars and SUVs speed away into the night.

Keeping their heads low and deep in the brush the eight cons hide feet from the sally port. C-Note tells Michael they need to move, but Michael says they have to wait until all the guards are ahead of them. But Sucre points out several K-9 units approaching their location. The dogs are placed into a truck without incident. Michael whispers, “They can’t smell us!” Suddenly, the dogs bark furiously and claw at their cages. Abruzzi grabs Michael and strains, “But they can see us!” The C.O.s draw their weapons and move towards the barking dogs. They shine their flashlights in the brush, but the cons are gone.

The eight men run through the thick forests surrounding the prison.

Veronica drives along a dark road in her rental car. She calls Nick and leaves a message on his phone, “Hey Nick, it’s me. Look, I just landed in Montana and I’m about an hour outside of Blackfoot. And this house, it’s got something to do with Terrence Steadman’s murder, I know it. And if whatever is here can help free Lincoln, then I wanted to say thank you. Bye…” At the other end, Nick’s body is heaped against a chair with a bullet wound to his head.

Vice President Reynolds tells Brinker that she can’t properly fund her campaign without Company help. Brinker is doing her best to sever the ties with Reynolds, but the Vice President is insistent and wants to know why she’s not being backed. Brinker tells her that she’s unable to effect what happens inside the Oval Office and the Company needs someone who can. Brinker says, “You can’t get things done. It’s that simple.” Reynolds defiantly replies, “Maybe you don’t know me so well.” Brinker suggests that Reynolds should drop out of the race, or the Company will do it for her.

Lincoln holds open a gap in a barbed wire fence. Tweener runs in too quickly and slices his hand on the wire. When Haywire approaches, Lincoln grabs a handful of his white jumpsuit and tells him to take it off. But Haywire can’t, he’s not wearing anything underneath. Abruzzi pushes Haywire through, they’ll deal with Haywire later.

The men come upon an old mill. With Abruzzi leading the pack, he kneels and looks over the property. Sucre and C-Note ask Abruzzi where the van is. Abruzzi says, “Ye of little faith,” then runs off. The others follow.

The men find a large blue van parked inside. Abruzzi tells Lincoln to drive, and Michael smashes the tail lights to make the van harder to see. Tweener moves his hand after resting on the wall and he leaves a bloody print. Inside the van, Lincoln asks Abruzzi where the keys are. Abruzzi tells him their in the garbage and Lincoln orders Haywire to go get them.

When Haywire jumps out of the car, the rest of the inmates pile in. While Haywire digs through the garbage, Abruzzi hands Lincoln the keys. Lincoln starts the van and speeds past Haywire.

C.O. Stolte updates Pope on the manhunt. They have set up traffic check points and added the names of the escapees to the passenger watch lists at nearby airports. In addition, they’re setting up surveillance and wiretaps on the houses of the inmate’s family members.

Pope turns and address a man investigating the door to the infirmary. The man tells Pope, “Door wasn't forced. Lock wasn't picked. Far as I can tell, they basically just walked right in.” An orderly nearby says it’s impossible because the doors are locked every night, unless someone left it open for them.

The van speeds down the back roads. T-Bag asks Abruzzi why he insisted that Lincoln drive and Abruzzi sit in the seat he’s in. Abruzzi doesn’t answer and moves his fingers underneath T-Bag’s seat searching for the handle of a small pistol. T-Bag’s moves his hands underneath his shirt concealing that he has affixed one side of the handcuffs to his left wrist. Before Abruzzi can pull the trigger, T-Bag reaches out and cuffs the other side to Michael’s right wrist. Abruzzi says that won’t stop him and forces the muzzle against T-Bags temple. T-Bag warns that if John pulls the trigger, then he’ll have to drag T-Bag’s dead body with him and that could jeopardize Abruzzi getting Fibonnaci’s location.

Abruzzi holds T-Bag as Michael searches for the key. T-Bag holds the key in his teeth, and then swallows it before they can pull it out. “Oops,” he taunts Michael and John.

The silhouettes of two men are working in a laboratory. One man explains, “This glycoside saxitoxin hybrid goes to work in the blood stream instantly,” as his hand moves across the beakers before him. Miles away, in her hotel suite, Vice President Reynolds looks over work at her desk. The man continues, “Five minutes is the outside limit even the strongest cardiac muscles can continue to function. After that, massive cardiac arrest with no chance of survival.” Reynolds looks over papers, making notes. He adds that toxicology tests will find nothing, the death will appear to come from natural causes. The man turns and holds out the beaker. He looks to the other man and questions, “This is high treason, you know that, don’t you?” The other man says nothing, then leaves.

Bellick scours the mill area with a team of guards. They find Tweener’s bloody hand print and the dogs have the scent. Another C.O. shows Bellick the broken tail light as Patterson brings over a local man who says he saw a blue van parked there earlier.

The tension grows between Abruzzi and T-Bag until Michael snaps and tells them to shut up. Michael tells them they’re about five miles from the airfield. C-Note leans toward Abruzzi and whispers, “Your jet better be there, Mr. Mafia. You feel me?”

The pilot of Abruzzi’s jet listens to this walkie-talkie and is growing increasingly nervous about the police response in the area. Maggio stands nearby, popping pistachios in his mouth.

Pope grills nurse Katie about the infirmary door being unlocked. Katie defends that she certainly didn’t leave the door unlocked. Pope asks if it was Dr. Tancredi, and Katie does her best to protect Sara but Pope knows she’s hiding something. Pope tells her she’ll be an accessory to the escape if she doesn’t tell him. Katie, ashamed that she’s betraying Sara, tells him, “Sara had a thing for Scofield.”

As the van continues, Sucre quietly says that all he wants to do is touch Maricruz’s belly and connect with his baby. Lincoln alerts them to a police roadblock ahead that cuts off their path to the airfield. Lincoln rolls the van off the road. Tweener panics and the cons go over their options. Michael sees a dirt road not far ahead and Lincoln moves the van towards it.

The cons bounce around the inside of the cab. Michael is growing tired of being wrist locked with T-Bag and tells him he’s going to get the key one way or another. The van lurches to a stop. The wheels spin in the mud and the men jump out to push it.

A man in a suit pushes a case of water bottles into the kitchen of a hotel in Washington D.C. A guard asks to see ID, and the two men with the cart flash badges that read “SECRET SERVICE.” The guard nods and the men place the water bottles on a table intended for an upcoming speech.

The van is stuck and Lincoln jumps out of the driver’s seat. Michael tells them that the airfield is about two miles from where they are and Abruzzi says they need to move. After the cons take off, Michael grabs Tweener. “This is as far as you go my friend,” Michael tells him. He tells Tweener that he’s lucky he hasn’t told the other men what he knows and tells Tweener to go. Tweener knows Michael is right, and runs off on his own. T-Bag looks down the road, “We got trouble, Pretty!” Michael and T-Bag sprint off to catch the others.

A helicopter buzzes overhead, searching the brush with its spotlight. The cons run blindly through the woods. They crash through the tree line and suddenly stop in their tracks. The cons stand on a rock ledge over looking a rock quarry, the ground is two hundred feet below them. For a moment it’s quiet, but the helicopter is coming back.

The cons press their bodies against a rock outcropping as the helicopter races over them. C-Note yells out, “There is no way we’re going to make two miles like this. Not with that bird up there!” Sucre looks down to the base of the quarry and sees a small mobile home next to a beat up old car. He yells back, “We are if I got something to do with it!”

Inside a garage next to a rustic Midwest farm house, a young girl stands next to her bike on a workbench. She spins a wheel and listens to the clicking sound of a playing card smacking the spokes. Behind her, Haywire watches through a dirty window.

The air strip controller walks up on Maggio and the pilot. Maggio turns to talk with him, at the same time he draws his gun from his coat pocket and keeps it behind his back. The controller tells them there’s no traffic allowed after sundown. Maggio tells him that they had some mechanical problems and that they’ll be on their way shortly. The controller turns and walks away and when he’s clear from Maggio’s view, slides a cell phone from his coat. He quietly tells someone, “Hey, it’s me. We got an unidentified aircraft out here at Goose Park. Think you better have a look at it.”

Sucre sits behind the wheel of the beat up old car on the floor of the quarry with Lincoln looking over his shoulder. Sucre boasts that hotwiring that old car will be easy for him.

Michael and T-Bag sit and rest nearby and C-Note kneels next to them and asks if Mexico is a place for a man to raise a family. Michael says it will certainly be dangerous and they probably won’t have much of a life. C-Note says that at least it will be a life and there’s no way he’s leaving his family behind.

Sucre pulls wires from the steering column with a big smile on his face. John and Lincoln watch as Sucre sings, “Red’s the juice. White’s the ground. Strike ‘em together and we blow this town...” Nothing happens, the engine doesn’t even click. Abruzzi walks to the front of the car and flips the hood. The three of them look down into an empty hole where the engine should be.

Haywire creeps into the garage and moves towards the girl. She sees him and backs away. Haywire pauses and stares at the girl. Then, he flips her bike off the table and moves towards the entrance. On the way out, he grabs an old fashioned football helmet from a shelf and smashes it down on his head. He apologizes to the girl, and then pedals into the night.

Bellick stands at the front of the ditched van giving Pope an update, “Engine’s still warm. And I’m not seeing any other tire tracks out here. They’re on foot. And judging by how hot this engine is, they haven’t gotten far. Five, ten minutes ahead of us at the most.” In a command center at the prison, Pope marks off Bellick’s location on a giant map. He traces the roads with police units near Bellick, then somewhat relieved says, “Brad, this could be over quicker than we thought. We got ‘em boxed in.” Bellick smiles and hangs up the phone.

C.O. Stolte enters the command center and gives Pope a status about Sara. None of the staff spoke with her; she left suddenly in the afternoon, and then returned for about an hour. She’s not answering her phone and the Chicago police are obtaining an emergency warrant to enter her apartment. Stolte pauses a moment, then asks Pope if he’s going to call the governor about his daughter. Pope knows he has to do something, but this isn’t the time.

Patterson tells Bellick the dogs picked up two trails, and they head in opposite directions.

Veronica walks around the back of the home in Blackfoot. She slides close to the house and looks inside the kitchen. Veronica stands outside watching Terrence use a blender to turn vegetables into juice. Terrence leaves the kitchen and Veronica tries the backdoor. The door opens and she quietly moves into the kitchen then slowly walks through the rest of the house.

Vice President Reynolds stands behind a podium before a group of reporters. She finishes a statement about tax cuts, then reaches over to grab a bottle of water. A reporter asks her a question as the Vice President twists off the top. She answers the man’s question, then brings the bottle up and takes a drink. In the back of the room, a man begins moving from reporter to reporter whispering something in their ears. One by one, the reporters hurry from the conference. The Vice President tries to call order, but she’s stopped by a secret service agent. He whispers in her ear and the bottle of water slips from her hand.

Lincoln and C-Note sprint ahead of the group as they come upon a farm. Sucre and Abruzzi follow them into a barn, but T-Bag and Michael are dragging far behind. When T-Bag and Michael finally enter the barn, Lincoln and Sucre close the doors behind them. Lincoln grabs T-Bag and forces him down on the hood of a car parked in the barn. Sucre grabs a pair of rusty garden shears as T-Bag struggles to get free from the group. Sucre clamps the rusty blade down on the metal chain between the cuffs, but the blade is too dull and doesn’t do a thing. “Guess it was just meant to be, hey now fellas?” T-Bag taunts them. Behind T-Bag, Abruzzi raises an axe over his head then sinks the axe blade into T-Bag’s wrist. T-Bag screams wildly.

The others circle around, stunned at what Abruzzi just did. “He’s lucky I didn’t take this to his head,” Abruzzi says with satisfaction. Sucre stutters, unable to grasp what happened. Outside, the farmer stands near the barn with a shotgun, “Hello?” he calls out. The farmer racks his shotgun, and then walks back to his house still suspicious about the scream he heard. Lincoln tells the crew to move; Sucre hesitates and argues that they can’t leave T-Bag. T-Bag shakes on the ground, his severed hand lying close to his face. Sucre knows he can’t stay and follows everyone out.

Bellick charges through the woods surrounded by dogs and C.O.s. At the same time, Tweener sprints through the woods until he comes to a road with a line of cars being delayed by construction. Tweener hears the dogs behind him and looks to the road at a horse trailer. He dashes across the road and climbs into the back. A construction worker waves the cars through, Tweener is in the clear.

Pope calls the governor and prepares to tell Governor Tancredi the news about the escape and his daughter. When the governor answers, Pope apologizes for calling him but before he can finish, Tancredi cuts him off, “I suggest you turn on your TV, Warden,” then hangs up the phone.

Pope hurries to his office where Becky and the C.O.s are standing around a television. A news anchor reports that the President was admitted to a hospital where he then suffered a massive heart attack. Doctors were unable to save him. The anchor continues to say, “And keeping with protocol, Vice President Reynolds is in an undisclosed location, being sworn in as the 46th president of the United States.”

Vice President Reynolds stands in the hotel kitchen holding one hand in the air, and the other on a Bible held by a local judge. She takes the Presidential oath surrounded by aides and secret service men. Kellerman stands proudly behind her. She excuses herself and on the way out crosses Brinker. Reynolds looks into Brinker’s eyes and says, “And you said I couldn’t get things done.” Brinker tries her best to stay on Reynold’s good side, but Reynolds won’t budge. She blows off Brinker and exits.

Chicago Police officers stand around Sara’s apartment door. One cop shouts that the have a warrant and unless she opens the door, they’re going to have to force their way in. When there’s no answer, they kick open door and file into the apartment. They round the corner and move to the living room where they find Sara. She lays face down, an empty bottle of morphine and a used syringe within arm’s reach. The officers holster their weapons, knowing that Sara has overdosed.

Tweener rides in the horse trailer, curled up and out of sight, fear covers his face. The truck and trailer pass a sign, “ST. LOUIS – 256.”

A playing card clicks on the spokes of Haywire’s stolen bike. His helmeted head twitches back and forth as he keeps a look out for police.

The five remaining cons dive into a ditch when they see a police SUV parks at the end of a bridge near them. “Just 500 yards and this whole thing is over.” Abruzzi warns, “Every second we stay here is another chance for them to find the plane!” A squad car races across the bridge and Michael signals them to move. As the others go, Lincoln grabs his brother, “If this doesn’t work out, I just want you to know…” Michael smiles, he knows. They run off after the others.

Just as the men clear the bridge, they’re spotted by the SUV. The officer at the wheel demands that they stop, but the men run on.

Veronica walks through the Steadman house and into the living room. She creeps up to a large leather chair next to a fireplace. Terrence sits asleep, but hears Veronica and slowly wakes up. “Hello Terrence,” Veronica says confidently. Terrence looks at Veronica with uncertainty.

The cons rush a small hill leading up to the airfield and they see the plane waiting.

The pilot fires up the engines and closes the door behind him, they can’t wait any longer.

The five men race down the run way, squad cars charge in from the surrounding area.

T-Bag stumbles through the woods, clutching his injured hand. Dogs bark behind him.

The plane rolls down the tarmac, full throttle. The cons stand at the foot of the runway and try to flag the plane down, but it’s too late.

The jet lifts off and flies over their heads. Celebration turns to panic. “What do we do now?” Sucre rasps, trying to catch his breath.

“We run!” Michael says.

The five remaining inmates run off into a field adjacent to the run way, the police chasing after them.
